Simple White Cake
1 cup white sugar
½ cup unsalted butter
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
1 ¾ teaspoons baking powder
½ cup milk
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease and flour a 9-inch square cake pan.
Cream sugar and butter together in a mixing bowl
Add eggs, one at a time, beating briefly after each addition
Mix in vanilla.
Combine flour and baking powder in a separate bowl
Add to the wet ingredients and mix well
Add milk and stir until smooth.
Pour batter into the prepared cake pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the top springs back when lightly touched, 30 to 40 minutes.
Remove from the oven and cool completely.
Enjoy!
Classic cake recipes
lemon, blackberry, strawberry, chocolate, coffee, orange, carrot, icing sugar, butter, milk, sugar, cream, rose, pistachio, elderflower, jam, cherry, custard, almond, caramel, walnut, poppyseed, banana, raspberry, coconut, ginger

My best Vanilla Cake - stays moist 4 days!
2 cups plain / all purpose flour ((cake flour OK too, Note 1))
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 tsp cooking salt ((kosher salt))
4 large eggs ((50 - 55g / 2 oz each), at room temp (Note 3))
1 1/2 cups caster / superfine sugar ((granulated/regular ok too, Note 2))
115g / 1/2 cup unsalted butter (, cut into 1.5cm / 1/2” cubes (or so))
1 cup milk (, full fat (Note 5))
3 tsp vanilla extract (, the best you can afford (Note 6))
3 tsp vegetable or canola oil ((Note 7))
225g / 2 sticks unsalted butter (, softened)
500g / 1 lb soft icing sugar / powdered sugar (, SIFTED)
3 tsp vanilla extract
2 - 4 tbsp milk (, to adjust thickeness)
Preparation:
Preheat oven to 180°C/350°F (160°C fan) for 20 minutes before starting the batter (Note 8)
Place shelf in the middle of the oven.
Grease 2 x 20cm / 8” cake pans with butter, then line with parchment / baking paper
(Note 9 more pan sizes) Best to use cake pan without loose base, if you can.
Combine Dry Ingredients:
Whisk flour, baking powder and salt in a large bowl
Set aside.
Beat eggs until aerated:
30 sec beat: Beat eggs for 30 seconds on speed 6 of a Stand Mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, or hand beater.
Slowly add sugar: With the beater still going, pour the sugar in over 45 seconds.
Triple volume: Then beat for 7 minutes on speed 8, or until tripled in volume and white.
Finish cake batter:
Heat Milk-Butter (Note 5): While egg is beating, place butter and milk in a heatproof jug and microwave 2 minutes on high to melt butter (or use stove).
Gently add flour: When the egg is whipped, scatter 1/3 flour across surface, then beat on Speed 1 for 5 seconds
Add half remaining flour, then mix on Speed 1 for 5 sec
Add remaining flour, then mix on Speed 1 for 5 - 10 sec until the flour is just mixed in
Once you can’t see flour, stop straight away.
Combine milk, vanilla & oil - Pour hot milk, vanilla and oil into the now empty flour bowl.
Lighten with some Egg Batter: Add about 1 1/2 cups (2 ladles or so) of the Egg Batter into the Milk-Butter (don't need to be 100% accurate with amount)
Use a whisk to mix until smooth - you can be vigorous here
Will look foamy.
Slowly add milk: Turn beater back on Speed 1 then pour the Milk mixture into the Egg Batter over 15 seconds, then turn beater off.
Scrape and final mix: Scrape down sides and base of bowl
Beat on Speed 1 for 10 seconds - batter should now be smooth and pourable.
Bake:
Pour batter into pans.
Knock out bubbles: Bang each cake pan on the counter 3 times to knock out big bubbles (Note 10 for why)
Bake 30 minutes or until golden and toothpick inserted into centre comes out clean.
Cool & frost:
Turn out & cool: Remove from oven
Cool in cake pans for 15 minutes, then gently turn out onto cooling racks
If using as layer cakes, cool upside down - slight dome will flatten perfectly
Level cake = neat layers.
Frost: Once cake layers are fully cool, top with frosting of choice, or cream and fresh berries or jam
See list of ideas in post!
Vanilla Buttercream:
Beat butter with paddle attachment in stand mixer for 3 minutes on high until it changes from yellow to almost white, and it becomes fluffy and creamy.
Add icing sugar / powdered sugar gradually in 3 lots, beating slowly (to avoid a powder storm) then once mostly incorporated, beat on high for a full 3 minutes until fluffy.
Add vanilla and milk, then beat for a further 30 seconds
Use milk only if needed to make it lovely and soft but still holds it's form (eg for piping)
Use immediately
(If you make ahead, refrigerate then beat to re-fluff).
Easy cake recipes
butter, flour, sugar, eggs, milk, chocolate, carrot, raspberry, lemon, orange, jam, ginger, banana, vanilla, blueberry, coffee, rhubarb, fig, caramel, coconut, courgette, nuts

How to Make Cake at Home: Homemade Cake Recipe, Bake a Cake at Home & Cake Ingredients
3 cup all purpose flour
4 egg
2 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoon vanilla essence
1 1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup virgin olive oil
1 cup milk
Making a homemade sponge cake was never so easy
Begin by mixing sugar and olive oil together
Whisk well until light and fluffy with a manual whisker or a fork
Once done, add the beaten eggs and blend well
Beat further so that the mixture turns white and creamy.
Sift together the all-purpose flour and baking soda
It is done to evenly distribute the baking soda in flour
Gradually, add this to the egg mixture
If required, add a little milk and mix till the batter is fluffy and soft
You may not add the entire milk if you feel the consistency of your cake is fine and it pours down like canned condensed milk
Add vanilla essence and blend well
Vanilla essence is important to camouflage the smell of eggs and to make the cake taste delicious.
Now, take a baking tin to cook the cake and grease it well using some olive oil or cooking spray
Then, sprinkle some maida or all-purpose flour on it
It will prevent the cake from sticking to the base
You can also line it with butter paper so that when the cake is baked, it can be taken out easily
Pour the prepared cake batter into the prepared tin and place it on a stand in a pressure cooker
Do not add water to the cooker and ensure that the tin does not touch the base of the cooker
You can also keep the baking dish on an inverted steel plate
Increase the flame and pressure cook for two minutes
Now, remove the whistle and cook on low flame for 35-40 minutes
If you are using an electric oven, cook at 180 degrees for 30-35 minutes.
Insert a knife or a metal skewer into the cake and if it comes out clean, then the cake is ready
Remove from the oven/cooker and allow to cool on a wire rack
This cooling process is done so that the cake doesnt break down in between and comes out nice and clean
Once cooled enough, turn the cake tin upside down to remove the cake
You can also use the butter paper to lift off the cake, but you have to be a pro to make it happen quickly as it can also break the cake
So, its better to turn the tin upside down for a better cake
Before decorating, cut an even slice of the cake from the top to prevent any doomed top
But make sure you do this step when the cake is still warm and not completely cold
Now, take some whipping cream and line the cake with it evenly and scrape any extra cream
Once done, you can use cherries to decorate the cake or even tutti-frutti, it completely depends on your choice
The cake is ready now.
To make whipping cream for a cake at home, all you need is a mixing bowl, some heavy whipping cream, powdered sugar, vanilla extract and an electric mixer
Take the bowl and add heavy whipping cream in it along with powdered sugar and vanilla extract in it
Whip them all together at medium-high speed
One must understand here that it should not be overdone
If the cream comes out grainy and curdled, its a hint that you have over-whipped the cream
The soft whipping cream will be done in a few minutes, say about 2-3 minutes
Make sure to stop in between and check the consistency of the whipping cream
The perfect whipping cream will have a sturdy peak in it when lifted off
It should not be too soft or liquidy, and curdled or heavy
Once done, you can transfer in a cone as well to decorate your cake.
100 best cake recipes

Best Vanilla Cake
3 and 2/3 cups (433g) cake flour (spooned & leveled)
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 and 1/2 cups (340g) unsalted butter, softened to room temperature
2 cups (400g) granulated sugar
3 large eggs + 2 additional egg whites, at room temperature*
1 Tablespoon pure vanilla extract (yes, Tbsp!)
1 and 1/2 cups (360ml) buttermilk, at room temperature*
1 and 1/2 cups (340g) unsalted butter, softened to room temperature
5 and 1/2 cups (650g) confectioners’ sugar
1/3 cup (80ml) whole milk or heavy cream
1 and 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
Preheat oven to 350°F (177°C)
Grease three 9-inch cake pans, line with parchment paper rounds, then grease the parchment paper
Parchment paper helps the cakes seamlessly release from the pans
(If it’s helpful, see this parchment paper rounds for cakes video & post.)
Make the cake:
Whisk the cake flour, salt, baking powder, and baking soda together
Set aside.
Using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with a paddle or whisk attachment, beat the butter and sugar together on high speed until smooth and creamy, about 3 minutes
Scrape down the sides and up the bottom of the bowl with a silicone spatula as needed
Beat in the 3 eggs, 2 egg whites, and vanilla extract on high speed until combined, about 2 minutes
(Mixture will look curdled as a result of the egg liquid and solid butter combining.) Scrape down the sides and up the bottom of the bowl as needed
With the mixer on low speed, add the dry ingredients just until combined
With the mixer still running on low, pour in the buttermilk and mix just until combined
You may need to whisk it all by hand to make sure there are no lumps at the bottom of the bowl
The batter will be slightly thick.
Pour batter evenly into cake pans
Weigh them to ensure accuracy, if desired
Bake for around 23-26 minutes or until the cakes are baked through
To test for doneness, insert a toothpick into the center of the cake
If it comes out clean, it’s done
Allow cakes to cool completely in the pans set on a wire cooling rack
The cakes must be completely cool before frosting and assembling.
Make the frosting:
In a large bowl using a handheld mixer or stand mixer fitted with a whisk or paddle attachment, beat the butter on medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes
Add confectioners’ sugar, milk, vanilla extract, and salt with the mixer running on low
Increase to high speed and beat for 2 minutes
Add more confectioners’ sugar if frosting is too thin, more milk if frosting is too thick, or an extra pinch of salt if frosting is too sweet.
Assemble and decorate
Using a large serrated knife, slice a thin layer off the tops of the cakes to create a flat surface
Discard (or crumble over ice cream!)
Place 1 cake layer on your cake stand, cake turntable, or serving plate
Evenly cover the top with about 1 and 1/2 cups of frosting
Top with 2nd cake layer and evenly cover the top with about 1 and 1/2 cups of frosting
Top with the third cake layer
Spread the remaining frosting all over the top and sides
I use and recommend an icing spatula to apply the frosting.
Refrigerate cake for at least 1 hour before slicing
This helps the cake hold its shape when cutting.
Cover leftover cake tightly and store in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
How to make chocolate cake
¾ cup + 2 tbsp flour ((112 grams) (all-purpose flour or wheat flour))
¼ cup + 2 tbsp cocoa powder ((34 grams) (6 tbsps))
½ tsp salt
¾ tsp baking powder
¾ tsp baking soda
1 cup sugar ((organic))
1 egg
½ cup milk
¼ cup oil ((4 tbsps) (I used virgin coconut oil))
1 to 2 tsp vanilla extract (or powder as needed)
½ cup boiling hot water
½ cup butter (unsalted (soft but cold))
1¾ cup powdered sugar (or confectioners sugar)
4 tbsp cocoa powder
1½ tbsp milk (or whipping cream)
1 tsp vanilla extract
Grease and line 2 - 6 inch cake pans or 1 - 7 or 8 inch pan
Preheat the oven to 175 C for at least 15 mins.
Sieve together flour, cocoa, salt, baking powder and baking soda to a mixing bowl.
Add sugar to the bowl
Give a good stir until well combined.
How to make chocolate cake
Make a well in the center of the bowl
Pour egg, oil, vanilla extract & milk
Whisk together all the wet ingredients
Then mix wet and dry together until just combined and no lumps appear.
Pour boiling hot water and whisk until all the water is absorbed by the batter
The batter is runny at this stage.
Pour this to the cake pans
Tap the pans gently twice to the counter.
Bake at 175 C for 28 to 30 mins or until the tester inserted comes out clean
Please adjust the timing as it depends on the oven.
Cool the cake in the pans on a wire rack for 10 mins
Invert to a cooling rack and cool completely before frosting.
Making chocolate buttercream frosting
Ensure butter is soft yet cold
Beat it until light & creamy for 2 mins
Then add the rest of the ingredients except milk
Beat until smooth, light and creamy
If the frosting is too thick add milk and beat
If it becomes runny, just add more powdered sugar.
Refrigerate for a while and spread on the cake
For more details watch the video.
Refrigerate and use up the chocolate cake with in a week.
Cake recipes

Top 50 cakes

Best cake recipes

