'6 egg', '4 tablespoon virgin olive oil', '1 teaspoon mustard paste', '1/2 teaspoon black pepper', 'water as required', '1/2 cup mayonnaise', 'salt as required', '12 bread slices']
To prepare this easy recipe, take a deep-bottomed pan and add enough water to it along with eggs. Let the eggs boil for 10 minutes. After the eggs boil, drain the water and let the eggs cool down a little. Now peel the eggs and chop them roughly.
Take a bowl and add the chopped eggs, mayonnaise, salt, mustard paste to the bowl and mix thoroughly. Add pepper powder to the mixture and mix again to form the filling.
Toast the bread slices using a little oil on pan and add the egg mixture to the bread. Cover it up with the other bread slice to prepare a sandwich. Make more such sandwiches with the leftover mixture and bread slices and serve.
done!
['2 teaspoons butter', '4 large eggs', '4 slices processed American cheese', '8 slices toasted white bread', 'salt and pepper to taste', '2 tablespoons mayonnaise', '2 tablespoons ketchup']
Melt butter over medium-high heat in a large skillet. Crack eggs into the pan and cook to desired firmness. Just before eggs are cooked, place a slice of cheese over each egg; continue to cook until cheese has melted.
Transfer each egg to a toasted slice of bread. Season eggs with salt and pepper. Spread mayonnaise and ketchup on remaining slices of bread and cover eggs with bread to make 4 sandwiches. Serve warm.
done!
['5 large eggs', '0.25 cup Kewpie mayonnaise', '0.5 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more to taste', '0.5 teaspoon granulated sugar', '0.125 teaspoon black pepper', '2 teaspoons heavy cream', '1 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened', '2 (1 1/2-ounce) Japanese milk bread slices (1/2 inch thick)']
Bring a medium saucepan of water to a boil over medium-high. Using a slotted spoon, carefully lower eggs into boiling water; cook 11 minutes. Remove eggs using a slotted spoon, or carefully drain into a sink. Plunge eggs into a bowl filled with ice water and let stand until cool, about 15 minutes. Drain well. Carefully peel eggs.
Using your hands, split eggs open; separate yolks and whites. Place yolks in a medium bowl and mash using the back of a fork until broken down and a few chunks remain; set aside. Finely chop egg whites; place in a small bowl and set aside.
Add mayonnaise, salt, sugar, and pepper to mashed yolks in bowl; gently stir until mixture is combined and some chunks remain. (Mixture should not be too chunky or a paste.)
Add half of the chopped egg whites to yolk mixture in medium bowl; reserve remaining egg whites for another use. Gently fold whites into yolk mixture until just coated. Chill for 1 hour.
Stir cream into chilled egg mixture; season with additional salt to taste. Set aside. Spread butter evenly over one side of each bread slice. Top one slice, butter side up, with egg salad. Cover with remaining slice, butter side down. Trim off and discard crust; cut sandwich in half diagonally so you have two triangles. Serve.
done!
['4 hard-cooked eggs, peeled and chopped', '0.5 cup mayonnaise', '1 teaspoon curry powder', 'salt and pepper to taste', '8 slices bread']
Gather your ingredients.
Mix together mayonnaise and curry powder in a bowl. Gently stir in eggs, then season to taste with salt and pepper.
Evenly divide between 4 slices of bread, top with remaining 4 slices.
done!
['2 eggs, beaten', '1 tablespoon milk', '1 pinch salt', '2 tablespoons mayonnaise', '2 slices bread, toasted', '1 teaspoon prepared yellow mustard']
Beat eggs, milk, and salt together in a bowl.
Heat a small nonstick skillet over medium heat. Cook eggs in hot skillet without stirring until set on the bottom, about 1 1/2 minutes. Flip eggs and cook without stirring until set on the other side, about 1 minute more. Remove from heat.
Spread 1 tablespoon of mayonnaise on each piece of toast. Spread mustard over mayonnaise onto each piece of toast. Place eggs on one piece of toast and top with remaining toast.
done!
['2 slices white bread, toasted', '1 tablespoon butter, softened', '2 tablespoons whipped cream cheese', '1 hard-boiled egg, sliced', "5 dashes hot pepper sauce (such as Frank's RedHot ), or to taste", '1 pinch salt and ground black pepper to taste']
Butter each slice of toast. Spread 1 tablespoon cream cheese onto each slice.
Layer hard-boiled egg slices evenly onto 1 slice of toast. Add hot sauce, salt, and pepper. Top with other slice of toast.
done!
['1 egg', '1 tablespoon milk', '2 slices white bread', '1 pinch salt and pepper to taste', '1 slice American cheese']
Crack the egg into a microwave-safe cereal bowl and whisk in the milk. Season with salt and pepper. Cook in the microwave on 100% power for 1 to 2 minutes, or until cooked through.
While the egg is cooking, toast the bread. Use a spoon to remove the cooked egg from the bowl and set it on one piece of toast. Top with a slice of cheese and the other piece of toast. Cook in the microwave until cheese is melted, about 15 seconds.
done!
['2 eggs', '1 -2 slice cheese', '2 slices toast (I use whole wheat)', '1 tablespoon butter', '1 tablespoon mayonnaise', 'salt', 'pepper']
Heat the butter in a medium-sized non-stick frying pan over medium high heat.
When it's very hot, crack one egg on one side of the pan and one egg on the other side of the pan.
Try to keep them from running into each other so that they can be flipped individually.
CRUCIAL: Poke the yolks with the eggshell (or a fork) so that they run into the whites.
Sprinkle salt and pepper on the eggs.
When eggs have set (edges seem firm), flip carefully.
I usually end up flipping them a few times to make sure the yolk is thoroughly cooked (it's okay if it's a little soft inside but not runny).
When almost done, top each egg with a piece of cheese and cover with a lid until melty--watch closely.
Spread mayo on each slice of toast, top with eggs, and put together.
done!
['1 tablespoon olive oil', '2 large eggs', 'salt and ground black pepper to taste', '1 tablespoon butter, softened', '2 slices Italian bread', '1 ounce Swiss cheese, sliced', '1 ounce Cheddar cheese, sliced', '0.5 ripe avocado, sliced']
Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat. Crack eggs into skillet; cook for 1 to 2 minutes. Flip and cook egg until done, 2 to 5 minutes more. Transfer eggs to a plate and season with salt and pepper.
Spread butter onto 1 side of each bread slice.
Heat a skillet over medium heat. Lay bread slices in the hot skillet, butter-side down. Quickly layer Swiss cheese, 1 fried egg, Cheddar cheese, 1 fried egg, avocado, and remaining bread slice, butter-side up. Carefully flip sandwich to grill other side until golden brown, 3 to 4 minutes.
Remove sandwich from skillet and cut in half.
done!
['1 large egg, beaten', '0.5 cup diced low-fat Swiss cheese (2 ounces)', '2 tablespoons snipped fresh chives or 2 teaspoons dried', '1 slice multigrain bread, toasted', '2 slices tomato']
Coat a small nonstick skillet with cooking spray and heat over medium heat. Add egg and cook, without stirring, until the egg starts to set around the edges, about 30 seconds. Add cheese and chives and cook, folding the cheese into the egg, until fluffy and set, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes more. Place on toast and top with tomato.
done!
['4 slices of white bread, soft', '4 eggs, at room temperature', 'chives, about 1 heaped tablespoon, finely chopped', 'white pepper', 'malt vinegar', '1 egg yolk', 'groundnut oil, or vegetable oil', '1 tsp white wine vinegar', '1/2 tsp mustard powder', 'salt']
Put the eggs in a saucepan and cover with cold water. Bring to the boil then simmer for 6 minutes. Place in a bowl of cold water
Make your mayonnaise. By far the easiest way to do this is by using an electric mixer with a whisk attachment, but it s perfectly possible by hand
Put the egg yolks in a clean bowl and whisk them together. Whisk in the mustard powder. Begin adding oil a few drops at a time, whisking as you do so and making sure each bit of oil is fully incorporated before adding the next
As you whisk in more oil and the mayo starts to thicken, you can start adding it in very slightly larger quantities until you are steadily adding it in a thin stream. If it splits, don t despair. Take a fresh egg yolk in a clean bowl and begin adding the split mixture into it, very slowly, just as if it were the oil. This should bring it back. Add the white wine vinegar and season with salt
Peel the eggs, and mash them with a fork. Mix in 2 tablespoons of the mayo and the chives, then season with salt and white pepper. Add a teaspoon of vinegar to start with, adding more if you think it s needed. Spread the mixture onto one slice of bread, top with the other, and cut into preferred sandwich shape
done!
['2 large eggs', '2 tablespoons plain low-fat Greek yogurt', '1 tablespoon mustard, or to taste', '3 cherry tomatoes, diced', '1 tablespoon chopped fresh chives, or to taste', '2 teaspoons lemon juice', '1 teaspoon chopped fresh dill, or to taste', '1 pinch garlic powder, or to taste', 'sea salt and ground black pepper to taste', '0.25 cup baby spinach, or to taste', '2 slices whole grain bread, toasted']
Place eggs in a saucepan and cover with water. Bring to a boil, remove from heat, and let eggs stand in hot water for 15 minutes. Remove eggs from hot water, cool under cold running water, and place in the refrigerator until cold, about 30 minutes.
Peel the shells off the eggs. Take the yolk from 1 egg and discard. Chop remaining yolk and both egg whites into small bits, leaving it chunky to add texture; place in a bowl. Add Greek yogurt and mustard; mix well. Mix in cherry tomatoes and chives, then mix in lemon juice. Season with dill, garlic powder, sea salt, and pepper.
Put egg salad on a slice of toasted bread. Add spinach and put the other piece of bread on top.
done!
['6 slices thick-cut bacon (about 6 ounces; 170g)', '1 tablespoon (14g) unsalted butter', '2 large eggs (110g)', '2 slices American cheese', 'Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper', '1 kaiser roll or bulkie roll (see notes)', '1 tablespoon mayonnaise, optional']
Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 400 F (205 C). Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. Cut 3 slices of bacon in half crosswise and set aside.
Place 3 whole slices of bacon side-by-side on the prepared baking sheet running parallel to counter edge, forming three rows. Fold over half of the center bacon strip halfway. Place 1 half-slice bacon across the 1st and 3rd row, running perpendicular to counter edge, then unfold the center slice over top the perpendicular strip. The half-slice should be woven between every other slice. Fold over 1st and 3rd whole slices until flush with perpendicular half-slice and lay another perpendicular half-slice of bacon across the center row. Repeat, alternating between folding back the center then the 1st and 3rd strips and laying remaining half strips across until all 6 half-slices of bacon have been used to create an interwoven pattern.
Bake bacon until crisp, 25 to 35 minutes. Using 2 spatulas, transfer bacon, flat bottom side up, to a paper-towel lined plate to drain. Pour rendered bacon fat into a small bowl and set aside (you should have about 2 tablespoons/30g). Once bacon is cooled, use a sharp knife to cut bacon into 2 equal squares; set aside.
In a small bowl, use a fork to beat eggs until they are just combined but still streaky, about 10 seconds. In a 10-inch nonstick skillet, melt butter over medium heat until it starts to foam and sizzle gently. Pour eggs into skillet, and tilt pan to distribute eggs evenly. Cook eggs, gently pushing sides of egg toward center, tilting pan to fill any gaps, until eggs are nearly cooked but surface is barely wet, 60 to 90 seconds. Reduce heat to low and place one slice of cheese in center of eggs. Using a flat spatula, with the cheese as a guide, fold edges of eggs over cheese, creating a square packet. Gently press eggs to adhere to cheese, then carefully flip the packet over. Place remaining cheese slice on top of eggs, cover, and cook until cheese is melted, about 60 seconds longer. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Transfer eggs to plate with bacon. Wipe skillet clean with paper towels.
In now-empty skillet, heat 1 tablespoon reserved bacon fat over medium heat until shimmering. Place one bread half in pan, cut-side down and cook, pressing and swirling bread around pan with hand, until bread is golden brown and evenly toasted, 60 to 90 seconds. Transfer toasted bread to cutting board, toasted side up. Repeat with remaining 1 tablespoon bacon fat and bread half.
To Assemble: Spread mayonnaise, if using, evenly over both toasted bun halves. Place bacon squares on bottom bun and top with egg-cheese packet. Top with bun half and gently press to adhere. Wrap sandwich in foil sandwich wrap and let sit for up to 5 minutes. Serve.
done!
['1 tablespoon butter', '2 tablespoons finely chopped onion', '1 slice fully cooked luncheon meat (e.g. Spam)', '1 egg, beaten', '2 slices bread', '1 slice American cheese', '1 slice tomato']
Melt butter in a small skillet over medium-high heat. Saute the onion in butter until soft. Mash up the slice of luncheon meat with a fork, and add it to the skillet. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes, until browned. Pour the egg into the skillet so that it covers all of the meat and onion. Cook until firm, then flip to brown the other side.
Place the egg and meat onto one slice of the bread and top with cheese and tomato if desired. Place the other piece of bread on top. Bread can also be toasted first.
done!
['1/2 a ripe avocado', '1 slice of good multi-grain bread for toasting - the thicker the better!', '1 tomato, sliced', '1 egg', '2 slices of turkey bacon', '1 slice of high-quality pepper jack cheese', 'few dashes of hot sauce (I use cholula brand)', 'salt and freshly ground black pepper']
In a small bowl, add avocado and sprinkle with salt and pepper, gently mash with a fork until it reaches a slightly chunky consistency. Add red pepper flakes if desired.
Toast bread to perfection, and spread smashed avocado over toast. Add the tomatoes and slice of cheese.
In a small skillet, cook bacon over medium heat until crispy. Remove and transfer to paper towel and pat dry. Keep heat and crack egg into skillet. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and cook until egg whites are set on the bottom yet yolk is still glossy, about 3 minutes or so.
Add the bacon to the toast and top with the fried egg. The warm egg should melt the cheese a bit. Top with a few dashes of hot sauce, if desired. Either add on another slice of toast and eat it like a sandwich, or serve it open faced like I do and dig in with a fork and knife. Enjoy!
done!
['12 eggs, beaten', '0.25 cup softened butter', '6 croissants, split', '12 slices smoked ham', '6 slices Colby-Jack cheese']
Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Spray a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Pour beaten eggs into the prepared baking dish. Bake in the preheated oven until they set and are no longer runny, 8 to 10 minutes. Remove, allow to cool, and cut into 6 portions.
Butter the cut sides of croissants and place one portion of the cooked egg onto each croissant bottom. Top each sandwich with two slices of ham and a slice of Colby-Jack cheese. Place croissant tops on top of sandwiches; wrap each sandwich well with plastic wrap. Place sandwiches onto a baking sheet; freeze until solid, about 3 hours. Store frozen.
To reheat, cook a wrapped sandwich in a microwave on High until hot in the center, 1 to 2 minutes.
done!
['1 large egg', '2 tablespoons milk', '0.5 teaspoon salt', '0.5 teaspoon onion powder', '0.5 teaspoon garlic-pepper seasoning', '0.33333334326744 cup Cheddar-Jack cheese', 'cooking spray', '2 teaspoons butter, softened', '2 slices bread', '0.33333334326744 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste']
Whisk egg, milk, salt, onion powder, and garlic-pepper seasoning together in a bowl until well combined and pale yellow in color. Dump in Cheddar-Jack cheese and stir until thick.
Spray a skillet with cooking spray and set over medium-low heat. Pour egg mixture into the skillet; cook and stir until eggs are set, about 5 minutes. Remove to a plate.
Lightly butter one side of each bread slice.
Spray the skillet again with cooking spray. Put one slice of bread, buttered-side down, in the pan. Top with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese, the egg mixture, the remaining mozzarella, and the remaining bread, buttered-side up. Cook until bread is toasted and browned, 1 to 2 minutes. Flip and cook until the other side is browned and the cheese is melted, another 1 to 2 minutes.
Transfer to a plate and let cool for a minute before serving.
done!
['6 large large hard boiled eggs (, peeled)', '3-4 Tablespoons mayonnaise ((or Greek yogurt), to taste)', '1 teaspoon yellow mustard', 'Salt and pepper (, to taste)', '8 slices Sandwich bread', 'Lettuce (optional, for serving)']
Mash the eggs in a bowl. Add mustard, mayonnaise, salt and pepper and mix well. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed.
Add a spoonful of egg salad mixture in between two slices of bread. This recipe will make about 4 sandwiches.
Store leftover egg salad in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, depending on the freshness of the eggs.
done!
['2 (12 ounce) packages English muffins', '1 tablespoon butter', '12 large eggs', '12 slices deli ham, warmed', '12 slices Cheddar cheese']
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Split English muffins and lay on a sheet pan.
Rub butter into each cavity of a 12-cup muffin tin, then crack an egg into each cavity. Break the yolks unless you want them runny.
Place the English muffins and eggs in the preheated oven on separate racks. Toast the muffins until golden brown, about 3 minutes, then remove. Bake the eggs until set, 10 to 15 minutes.
Lift eggs out of the pan with a spatula and place on English muffins. Top with ham and Cheddar cheese. Serve hot.
done!
['2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided', '2 cups coarsely chopped baby spinach', '0.5 teaspoon garlic powder', '0.25 teaspoon ground pepper, divided', '0.125 teaspoon salt', '1 large egg', '1 whole-grain English muffin, toasted', '2 tablespoons shredded extra-sharp Cheddar cheese']
Heat 1 teaspoon oil in a medium nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add spinach, garlic powder, 1/8 teaspoon pepper and salt; cook, stirring, until the spinach is wilted, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a plate.
Add the remaining 1 teaspoon oil to the pan. Break egg into the pan; sprinkle with the remaining 1/8 teaspoon pepper. Cook until set on the bottom, 1 to 2 minutes. Break the yolk, then flip the egg and cook, undisturbed, until set, about 1 minute more.
Place the spinach on an English muffin half. Sprinkle with cheese, then top with the fried egg and remaining muffin half.
done!
['1 bagel, sliced in half', '1 tablespoon cooking oil', '1 large egg', '1 small avocado, peeled and pitted', 'salt and ground black pepper to taste', '2 tablespoons softened cream cheese']
Gather the ingredients.
Toast sliced bagel in a toaster until golden brown.
While the bagel is toasting, heat oil in a frying pan over medium heat and add egg. Pan-fry until set, 3 to 4 minutes.
Mash avocado (a fork will do the job nicely!) in a medium bowl; sprinkle with salt and black pepper.
Spread 1 tablespoon cream cheese on each toasted bagel half. Top with mashed avocado and egg, and add more salt and pepper if desired.
done!
['1 large egg', '1 bagel, split', '2 tablespoons ketchup, or to taste', '0.125 teaspoon chile-lime seasoning (such as Tajin ), or more to taste', 'salt and ground black pepper to taste']
Crack egg into a small, nonstick skillet over medium heat. Cook until outer edges become opaque, about 1 minute. Cover, reduce heat to low, and cook until whites are completely set, about 4 minutes.
Meanwhile, toast bagel.
Spread ketchup on both sides of the toasted bagel. Add fried egg to the lower half, season with chile-lime seasoning, salt, and pepper, and add top half.
done!
['4 slices white sandwich bread, crusts removed and lightly toasted', '2 tablespoons (28g) unsalted butter, softened', 'Four 1/4-inch-thick slices Spam', '2 tablespoons (30ml) half-and-half1 1/2 teaspoons potato or tapioca starch (see notes)', '1/8 teaspoon kosher salt; for table salt, use a pinch3 large eggs1/2 tablespoon vegetable oil']
Using an offset spatula or butter knife, spread a thin layer of unsalted butter on one side of each piece of lightly toasted bread. Set aside.
In a medium nonstick or cast iron skillet set over medium-high heat, cook Spam until bottom is golden brown, about 2 minutes. Using chopsticks, tongs, or an offset spatula, flip and cook until second side is crisped and golden brown, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and divide slices of Spam between 2 slices of bread and set aside. Using a paper towel, wipe skillet clean.
In a large bowl, whisk together half-and-half, potato starch, and salt until well combined. Add eggs and whisk until no traces of whites are visible and eggs are slightly frothy, about 1 minute. Add vegetable oil to the now-empty skillet and heat over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add egg mixture and, using a rubber spatula, fold and swirl the eggs until just set, 1 to 2 minutes. Remove from heat.
Top each Spam portion with eggs, close sandwiches with remaining bread slices, and serve immediately.
done!
['1 tablespoon mayonnaise', '0.5 teaspoon Cajun seasoning', '2 slices toasted whole wheat bread', '2 ounces andouille smoked sausage, cut in half lengthwise', '1 tablespoon vegetable oil', '1 large egg']
Whisk mayonnaise and Cajun seasoning together in a small bowl until smooth. Spread over both slices of toasted bread.
Place andouille sausage in a skillet, cut-side down. Cook over medium-high heat for 2 minutes. Flip and cook for 2 minutes more. Transfer andouille to one slice of bread, leaving a small space in between the halves as a "raft" to hold the egg in place.
Heat oil in the same skillet for 1 minute over medium heat. Crack egg into the skillet and let cook undisturbed for 3 minutes. Flip with a spatula and cook for 2 minutes more. Place fried egg on top of the andouille and cover with the second slice of bread.
done!
['1 clove garlic, minced', '0.25 cup mayonnaise', '4 3/4-inch thick slices of crusty bread', '2 cups arugula', '2 teaspoons olive oil', '0.5 teaspoon fresh lemon juice', '1 pinch salt', '1 pinch freshly ground black pepper', 'cooking spray', '4 eggs']
Mix garlic and mayonnaise together in a small bowl. Spread mayonnaise on 1 side of the bread slices. Mix arugula with olive oil, lemon juice, salt, and black pepper in a bowl until coated; divide arugula in fourths, placing each portion atop mayonnaise side of a bread slice.
Spray a skillet with cooking spray, place over medium-high heat, and crack eggs into skillet, one at a time. Cook on one side only until whites are firm and yolks are slightly runny, 2 to 3 minutes. Season eggs with salt and black pepper. Gently place an egg on each open-face sandwich.
done!
['1 tablespoon butter', '3 eggs', '3 tablespoons mango chutney', '4 slices toasted white bread', '1 teaspoon chili sauce']
Melt butter in a skillet over medium heat. Cook the eggs until the white is completely set, but the yolks are still soft , flipping once.
Spread the mango chutney evenly on four pieces of toasted bread. Place a fried egg on a slice of bread, break the yolk and season egg with a dash of chili sauce. Repeat with two of the remaining pieces of toast and the remaining two eggs. Stack the pieces so that the egg and toast alternate layers. Place the final piece of toast on top and serve immediately.
done!
['8 hard-cooked eggs, diced', '1 cup mayonnaise', '0.25 cup dried onion flakes', '0.5 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon mustard powder', '0.25 teaspoon garlic powder', '0.25 teaspoon black pepper', '1 teaspoon dill weed', '8 slices white bread']
In a bowl, gently mix the eggs, mayonnaise, onion flakes, salt, mustard powder, garlic powder, pepper, and dill. Cover, and refrigerate 8 hours, or overnight. To serve, spread equal amounts on 4 slices bread; top with remaining bread slices to make sandwiches.
done!
['  ripe avocado, stone removed', '  red chilli, finely chopped (deseed first, if you like)', 'squeeze fresh lemon or lime juice', '1 brioche burger bun or soft bap', '1 tsp extra virgin olive oil', '4 rashers smoked streaky bacon', '2 large free-range eggs', '1 large tomato, sliced into four widthways', '1 tbsp mayonnaise or garlic mayonnaise', 'freshly snipped cress from a punnet (alternatively use finely chopped watercress or coriander leaves)', 'sea salt and freshly ground black pepper']
Scoop the avocado into a bowl and, using a fork, roughly mash it with the chilli, lemon or lime juice and a good pinch of salt and pepper. Set aside.
Cut the burger bun in half and toast under the grill or on a hot griddle. Heat the oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat and cook the bacon for two minutes on each side, or until crisp. Move to one side of the pan. Break the eggs into the pan and cook for two minutes, or until the whites are set but the yolks remain runny.
Spread the base of the bun with the smashed avocado and top with two slices of tomato and one of the eggs, add two rashers of bacon and sprinkle with some of the cress. Top with another two tomato slices, the remaining egg, more cress and the bacon. Season with pepper.
Spread the underside of the remaining bun half thickly with mayonnaise and place on top. Eat at once!
done!
['1/2 cup broccoli', '1 tablespoon olive oil', '2 eggs', '1/4 teaspoon garlic powder', "1/4 teaspoon Lawry's Seasoned Salt", '1/8 teaspoon salt', '1/8 teaspoon pepper', '1 tablespoon milk', '1 ounce provolone cheese (1 slice)', '2 slices Italian bread (thick slices)']
Chop broccoli; heat in pan with olive oil, sprinkle with garlic powder and seasoned salt.
Beat eggs, milk, salt and pepper. Pour eggs over broccoli and scramble together (do not overcook).
When almost done, place a slice of provolone cheese over the top to melt.
Serve on Italian bread.
done!
['3 hard-boiled eggs', '4 spring onions, finely chopped', '1 tablespoon fresh chives (heaped) or 1 teaspoon dried chives (heaped)', '1/2 teaspoon butter', '1 tablespoon mayonnaise or 1 tablespoon allergy-free mayonnaise']
Peel eggs and chop roughly.
Chop spring onions very finely and use most of the green. I used up till the leaves spread.
Throw the eggs, spring onions, and chives in a bowl. Mash throughly with a fork.
Add the butter and mayonnaise and mix.
Substitution information: Instead of mayonnaise I used Elimination Salad Dressing (http://www.recipezaar.com/162646) without the garlic or herbs.
The mayo is mostly to add moisture to the filling, so extra butter should work in a pinch.
done!
['2 slices whole wheat bread, toasted', '2 eggs', '2 teaspoons olive oil', '1 tablespoon light mayonnaise', '1/2 tomatoes, sliced thinly', '1 ounce extra-sharp cheddar cheese, sliced thinly', 'salt', 'fresh ground pepper']
Fry the eggs in the olive oil to your liking.
Meanwhile, toast the bread,& slice the tomatoes& cheddar.
Put a thin layer of mayo over toast,& top with eggs, so that one yolk is at each end of one slice of bread.
Top with tomato, salt& pepper, cheese& other slice of bread.
done!
['2 -3 tablespoons butter (or to taste) or 2 -3 tablespoons margarine (or to taste)', '1 -2 large egg (I use 2 eggs for one sandwich)', 'salt and black pepper (to taste)', '2 slices whole wheat bread or 2 slices white bread', '1 -2 tablespoon mayonnaise', '1 slice American cheese']
Toast the 2 slices of bread.
Butter one side of one piece of toast, then on the other slice spread with mayonnaise (use any amount of butter and mayo desired).
Place 1 slice of cheese over either the buttererd side or the mayo side.
Heat about 1-2 tablespoon butter into a skillet over medium heat.
Break eggs into the skillet, then season with salt and black pepper to taste.
Cover the skillet and cook eggs until cooked but leave the yolk semi-soft.
Place the cooked egg/s over the cheese on the bread and top with the remaining slice of toast.
done!
['1 large egg', 'salt and pepper', '1 slice of processed cheddar cheese or 1 slice your favorite cheese', '1 hamburger bun (the Italian hamburger buns)', 'schneider october fest prepared mustard or any honey mustard']
Crack the egg in a lightly buttered frying pan on medium heat.
Break the yolk and cook on one side then flip and fry on the other side.
Salt and pepper to taste.
Turn off heat.
Place the slice of cheese on top and melt slightly.
Meanwhile toast the bun as you like.
Spread the mustard on one or both sides of the bun and place the egg between them.
Makes a nice snack or light lunch with some raw veggies or salad on the side.
done!
['2 teaspoons butter', '1 egg', 'salt and pepper', '2 slices whole wheat bread', 'cheddar cheese', 'mayonnaise']
Place a small pan on a burner.
Add the butter and heat on medium high heat. (Make sure not to heat the pan on high, or else the egg will turn rubbery.).
After the butter has melted, crack the egg in the pan.
Let sit for about a minute.
Pop the yolk.
Sprinkle with salt and pepper.
When egg is set, flip over and cook other side.
Cook egg to your liking.
Meanwhile, spread mayonaise on bread and place cheese.
Place the cooked egg on top of the cheese, so it will melt.
Top with other slice of bread.
Enjoy!
done!
['1 -2 tablespoon butter', '4 large eggs', '4 slices cheddar cheese (I use Kraft singles for this they melt the best!)', '8 slices white bread, toasted', 'salt and pepper', '2 tablespoons mayonnaise', '2 tablespoons ketchup']
In a skillet melt the butter over medium heat.
Crack the eggs and add to the pan and cook to desired doneness.
Just before the eggs are cooked place one slice of cheese over each egg.
After the cheese has melted place each egg on a toasted piece of bread then sprinkle with salt and black pepper.
Spread the mayo and ketchup on the remaining slices of bread and cover the eggs with the bread slices.
Serve warm.
done!
['1 piece baguette, about 6-inch in length', '1 tablespoon mayonnaise', 'fresh cracked black pepper, to taste', '1 medium tomatoes, sliced', '1 -2 egg, hard-boiled and sliced']
Slice the baguette open length-wise.
Spread with mayo and sprinkle with the black pepper.
Layer the sliced tomato and eggs on top.
Replace top of baguette and enjoy!