['2 cups warm water', '0.33333334326744 cup white sugar', '2 large russet potatoes - peeled, and sliced into 1/4 inch strips', '6 cups vegetable oil for frying', 'salt to taste']
Stir together warm water and sugar in a medium bowl. Soak potatoes in water mixture for 15 minutes. Remove potatoes from water and dry thoroughly on paper towels.
Heat oil in a deep-fryer to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook potatoes in hot oil until golden, 5 to 6 minutes. Drain on paper towels and season with salt.
done!
['2.5 pounds russet potatoes, peeled', '1 cup vegetable oil for frying', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '1 teaspoon garlic salt', '1 teaspoon onion salt', '1 teaspoon paprika', '1 teaspoon salt', '0.5 cup water, or as needed']
Slice potatoes into French fries and place them into a large bowl of cold water to prevent them from turning brown.
Heat oil in a heavy saucepan or large skillet to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
While the oil is heating, sift flour, garlic salt, onion salt, paprika, and salt into a large bowl. Gradually stir in enough water to make a slightly thick batter that can be drizzled from a spoon.
Drain fries and pat dry; dip into the batter one at a time.
Lower fries carefully into the hot oil in batches to prevent them from clumping together. Fry until golden brown and crispy on all sides, about 7 to 10 minutes.
Drain fries on a paper towel-lined plate.
Serve hot and enjoy!
done!
['cooking spray', '6 Yukon Gold potatoes, cut into thick fries', '1 tablespoon white sugar', '0.25 cup extra-virgin olive oil', '1 teaspoon garlic powder, or more to taste', '1 teaspoon salt, or more to taste', '1 teaspoon ground black pepper, or more to taste']
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil; spray with cooking spray.
Place sliced potatoes in a colander; sprinkle sugar over potatoes. Set aside until liquid is released from potatoes, 20 to 30 minutes. Drain liquid and dry potatoes well.
Mix potato slices, olive oil, garlic powder, salt, and black pepper in a resealable plastic bag until evenly coated. Spread coated potato slices in a single layer, leaving space around each potato, on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes; flip fries and continue baking until crisp and browned, about 20 more minutes.
done!
['3 tablespoons tomato paste', '1/4 cup olive oil', '3 garlic cloves, finely crushed or minced', '1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic', '1 1/2 teaspoons red pepper flakes', '1/4 teaspoon cayenne', '1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper', '1/8 teaspoon kosher salt', '16 ounces frozen crinkle cut French fries', '2 ounces Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese']
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C). Line a baking sheet with parchment.
Add tomato paste, olive oil, crushed garlic, granulated garlic, red pepper flakes, cayenne, black pepper, and salt to a large mixing bowl, and whisk thoroughly to combine.
Add the fries in using your hands, a few at a time; make sure fries are all separated, and no ice goes into the bowl.
Toss gently with a spatula until every fry is completely and evenly coated.
Use a microplane or other very fine grater to grate a dusting of Parmigiano-Reggiano over the top of the fries. Toss with spatula until evenly mixed in, and then repeat for a total of 2 grated cheese additions.
Transfer fries to the prepared baking sheet in a single, even layer; space out as evenly as possible. Grate Parmigiano-Reggiano over the top until every fry is covered.
Bake in the preheated oven until the fries are very well browned, charred in spots, and the edges of the fries have crisped up, 30 to 35 minutes. Depending on the size and shape of your frozen fries, you may need to bake longer, but start checking at 30 minutes.
Grated additional Parmigiano-Reggiano over fries, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve immediately.
done!
['1 large baking potato', '1 tablespoon olive oil', '0.5 teaspoon paprika', '0.5 teaspoon garlic powder', '0.5 teaspoon chili powder', '0.5 teaspoon onion powder']
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
Cut potato into thick wedges. Mix olive oil, paprika, garlic powder, chili powder, and onion powder together in a medium bowl. Add potato wedges and toss to coat evenly; arrange on a baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven, turning once or twice, until golden brown and crispy, about 45 minutes.
done!
['3 russet potatoes, sliced into 1/4 inch strips', 'cooking spray', '1 teaspoon dried basil', '0.25 cup grated Parmesan cheese', 'salt and pepper to taste']
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Lightly grease a medium baking sheet.
Arrange potato strips in a single layer on the prepared baking sheet, skin sides down. Spray lightly with cooking spray, and sprinkle with basil, Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper.
Bake 25 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden brown.
done!
['0.25 cup olive oil', '1 teaspoon garlic powder', '1 teaspoon onion powder', '1 teaspoon chili powder', '1 teaspoon Cajun seasoning', '1 teaspoon sea salt', '6 large baking potatoes, sliced into thin wedges']
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Mix olive oil, garlic powder, onion powder, chili powder, Cajun seasoning, and sea salt in a large resealable bag. Add potatoes and toss to evenly coat with seasoned oil. Spread coated potatoes in 1 layer onto a baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven for 35 minutes. Stir potatoes with a spatula and continue cooking until crisp, about 10 more minutes.
done!
['6 large red potatoes, or more to taste', '3 cups canola oil', '0.66666668653488 cup dried cilantro', '0.25 cup grated Parmesan cheese', '3 cloves garlic, minced, or more to taste', '2 tablespoons sea salt, or more to taste', 'freshly ground black pepper to taste', '2.5 tablespoons truffle oil']
Cut potatoes to desired size, but not too thick. Try to ensure fries are as close to the same size as possible.
Place fries into a microwave-safe container and microwave for 4 minutes.
Place oil into a frying pan and heat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Place 1 to 2 handfuls of fries in the frying pan and fry until browned and soft, 4 to 5 minutes, turning and tossing frequently to cook evenly.
Preheat the oven to 225 degrees F (110 degrees C).
Drain fries in a bowl lined with a paper towel. Toss fries in the bowl to get rid of excess oil; remove paper towel.
Combine cilantro, Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper in a bowl. Toss fries in the mixture until well mixed. Drizzle fries with truffle oil and toss again until well mixed. Transfer fries to an oven-safe container.
Bake in the preheated oven to allow truffle oil to settle and reheat fries, 5 to 7 minutes. Serve fries while hot.
done!
['0.5 (16 ounce) package frozen French fries', '1.5 teaspoons olive oil', '0.25 teaspoon salt']
Preheat an air fryer to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place frozen French fries in a large bowl. Add olive oil and toss to coat. Season with salt and toss to coat again.
Spread out French fries in the basket of the air fryer, making sure to not overcrowd, and cook for 10 minutes. Turn fries over using a spatula and continue cooking until desired crispness, 2 to 4 minutes more.
done!
['peanut oil or other vegetable oil, for frying', '2 lbs baking potatoes, like russets', 'salt, to taste']
Pour oil in a deep fryer or heavy saucepan to reach halfway up the sides of the pan.
Heat to 325 degrees F, use a deep fry thermometer to determine this.
While the oil is heating, peel the potatoes and push through a French fry cutter to form uniform sticks.
As you go, place the cut potatoes in a bowl of ice water to release some of the starch and to keep them from browning.
Dry the potato strips thoroughly, this will keep the oil from splattering.
Fry the potatoes in batches so the pan isn't crowded and the oil temperature does not plummet.
Cook for 3 minutes until they are soft but not browned.
Remove the potatoes with a long-handled metal strainer and drain on brown paper bags.
Bring oil temperature up to 375 degrees F.
Return the par-fried potatoes to the oil in batches and cook a second time for 4 minutes until golden and crispy.
Drain on fresh brown paper bags then place in a serving bowl lined with paper towels.
Salt and serve immediately.
done!
['1 1/2 pounds russet potatoes (about 3 large), cut into 1/4- to 1/2-inch-thick sticks', '4 tablespoons olive oil', '1/2 teaspoon salt', '1/2 teaspoon black pepper']
Arrange one oven rack at the lowest point. Place a large rimmed baking sheet there and heat oven to 500 degrees.
In a large bowl, toss together potatoes, the oil, salt, pepper and any additional seasonings. Carefully spread potatoes out on the preheated baking sheet and return to oven s lower rack. Roast until slightly golden and crispy, tossing after 15 minutes.
Reduce oven temperature to 425 degrees and bake 10 to 15 minutes more.
done!
['8 yukon gold potatoes', '1 -2 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil (use a good quality - I use Mastero)', 'salt', 'Pam cooking spray']
Wash potatoes and cut them into semi-thin strips.
Place strips in a bowl and add cool water to cover the potatoes.
Wash out some of the"starch" and then drain the potatoes well.
Mix in the olive oil and sprinkle with salt.
Mix all of the potatoes well so that they all get coated evenly.
Spray a cookie sheet with PAM and then place the potatoes on top.
Cook at 350F for approximately 20-25 minutes (more if you want them crunchy and brown) Serve and enjoy!
done!
['4 russet potatoes, preferably idaho', '2 tablespoons sugar', 'water, enough to cover your potatoes', 'peanut oil (enough to fill your pot at least half way)', 'onion powder', 'salt']
Wash your potatoes, making sure you scrub all the dirt off. Cut any bad spots off the potato.
Slice the potato into 1/4-1/3 inch slices, holding the potato upright while doing so. Turn the potato a quarter turn, and slice it again into 1/4-1/3 inch slices. This will give you perfectly cut fries. (I like to leave the skin on my potatoes, but this is a personal preference). Repeat with each potato.
Place the sliced potatoes into a bowl. Mix 2 tbsp sugar with 2 cups of water, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Pour over the potatoes. Add enough water to cover the potatoes, swirling it around to make sure the sugar is equally distributed. Let the potatoes sit in the water at least 2 hours. (If you leave them more than 3 hours, refrigerate the potatoes and water).
Pour the oil into your dutch oven or pot to about half full. Heat the oil on high. After about 2 1/2 minutes, test the oil by placing a dried fry into the oil -- if it fries vigorously, your oil is ready. Meanwhile, pour the water off the fries and blot with a paper towel. This will cause less oil splatter.
Cook the potatoes in hot oil for 2-3 minutes. Remove and drain on paper towels. Repeat until all have been cooked for 2-3 minutes.
Return the first batch of fries to the oil until they are golden brown. Repeat with the other fries.
Sprinkle with onion powder and salt to taste. (We like to use greek seasoning sometimes, and also add pepper sometimes).
Keep them warm in the oven until ready to serve (at my house, they are grabbed from the plate immediately!).
done!
Recommendation Conceptual Demonstration