['2 (1/4 ounce) envelopes active dry yeast', '1/4 cup warm water (105 to 115 degrees)', '1 1/2 cups lukewarm milk', '1/2 cup white sugar', '1 teaspoon salt', '2 eggs', '1/3 cup shortening', '5 cups all-purpose flour', '1 quart vegetable oil (for frying)', '1/3 cup butter', "2 cups confectioners' sugar", '1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla', '4 tablespoons hot water']
Heat oil in a deep-frier to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a small bowl sprinkle the yeast over the warm water, and let stand for 5 minutes, or until foamy.
In a large bowl, mix together the yeast mixture, milk, sugar, salt, eggs, shortening, and 2 cups of the flour. Mix for a few minutes at low speed.
Beat in remaining flour 1/2 cup at a time, until the dough no longer sticks to the bowl.
Knead until smooth and elastic. Place the dough into a greased bowl, and cover. Set in a warm place to rise until double.
Turn the dough out onto a floured surface, and gently roll out to 1/2 inch thickness.
Cut with a floured doughnut cutter. Gentlely place the doughnuts in the hot oil. Don't crowd the doughnuts.
Melt butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Stir in confectioners' sugar and vanilla until smooth. Remove from heat, and stir in hot water one tablespoon at a time until the icing is at a runny consciencey.
Fry the doughnuts until golden brown on each side. Dip in the glaze while still warm.
Put a cookie sheet under a wire rack. Place the glazed doughnut on the wire rack and let the excess glaze drip off.
done!
['1   cups powdered milk', '  cup flour', '1 tablespoon semolina', '1 teaspoon bicarbonate of soda', '1 teaspoon lemon juice', '3 tablespoons butter, melted', '1   cups milk', '1   cups sugar', '1 cup water', 'saffron, few strands', 'almond, toasted and chopped', 'pistachio, toasted and chopped']
In a large bowl, mix the powdered milk, flour, semolina, bicarbonate of soda, lemon juice, butter, and milk until thoroughly combined.
Cover with plastic wrap and leave to rest for 15 minutes, until all the moisture is absorbed.
Take a golf ball-sized portion of dough and roll into a ball. Repeat with remaining dough.
In a deep pot, heat the sunflower oil until it reaches 360 F (160 C).
Fry the doughnuts for about 4 minutes, turning occasionally, until they are golden brown on all sides.
Use a slotted spoon to transfer the fried doughnuts to a paper towel-lined plate.
Add the sugar, water, and saffron to a saucepan over a medium heat, and stir.
Once the sugar has dissolved and is syrupy (about 5-7 minutes), add the doughnuts to the pan, stirring to coat in the syrup.
Let the doughnuts soak in the syrup for an hour.
Remove the doughnuts and garnish with the almonds and pistachios.
Enjoy!
done!
['2 quarts vegetable oil for frying', '3 cups all-purpose flour', '1 cup white sugar', '1 tablespoon baking powder', '0.5 teaspoon salt', '0.5 (.13 ounce) envelope unsweetened soft drink mix, any flavor (such as KOOL-AID )', '1 cup milk', '2 eggs', '3 tablespoons melted butter', '1 teaspoon vanilla extract', '1 cup white sugar', '0.5 (.13 ounce) envelope unsweetened soft drink mix, any flavor (such as KOOL-AID )']
Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C). Mix 3 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, the baking powder, salt, and 1/2 packet of the soft drink mix together in a large bowl.
Whisk the milk, eggs, butter, and vanilla extract together in a separate large bowl until blended; slowly stir in the flour mixture until entirely incorporated in a batter the consistency of a thick pancake batter.
Drop the batter by large spoonfuls, about 2 teaspoons in size, into the preheated oil; fry until deep golden brown on all sides, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove to drain on a platter lined with paper towels.
Mix together 1 cup sugar with the remaining 1/2 packet of soft drink mix in a flat-bottomed dish. Roll the drained donuts in the sugar mixture while still hot. Set aside on a fresh set of paper towels to cool slightly; serve warm.
done!
['2.5 cups all-purpose flour', '0.5 cup white sugar', '1 tablespoon baking powder', '0.5 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon ground cinnamon', '0.25 teaspoon ground nutmeg', '1 cup milk', '1 egg, beaten', '0.25 cup butter, melted and cooled', '2 teaspoons vanilla extract', '2 quarts oil for deep frying', '0.5 teaspoon ground cinnamon', '0.5 cup white sugar']
In a large bowl, stir together the flour, 1/2 cup sugar, baking powder, salt, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon and nutmeg. Make a well in the center and pour in the milk, egg, butter, and vanilla. Mix until well blended. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.
Heat oil in a deep heavy skillet or deep-fryer to 370 degrees F (185 degrees C). On a floured board, roll chilled dough out to 1/2 inch thickness. Use a 3 inch round cutter to cut out doughnuts. Use a smaller cutter to cut holes from center. If you do not have a small cutter, use the mouth of a bottle.
Fry doughnuts in hot oil until golden brown, turning once. Remove from oil to drain on paper plates. Combine the remaining 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1/2 cup sugar in a large resealable bag. Place a few warm donuts into the bag at a time, seal and shake to coat.
done!
['1 cup white sugar', '2 teaspoons baking powder', '1 teaspoon baking soda', '1 teaspoon ground nutmeg', '0.5 teaspoon ground cloves', '2 teaspoons ground cinnamon', '3 cups all-purpose flour', '1 cup buttermilk', '3 eggs', '1 tablespoon honey', '0.5 cup butter, melted']
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Lightly grease a baking sheet, or donut baking pan.
In a medium bowl, mix sugar, baking powder, baking soda, nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon and flour. Mix buttermilk, eggs, honey and butter in a separate medium bowl, and stir into the dry ingredients. Spoon the mixture onto the prepared pan in doughnut shapes.
Bake 12 minutes in the preheated oven, until golden brown.
done!
['2 cups all-purpose flour', '0.75 cup white sugar', '2 teaspoons baking powder', '0.25 teaspoon ground nutmeg', '0.25 teaspoon ground cinnamon', '1 teaspoon salt', '0.75 cup milk', '2 eggs, beaten', '1 tablespoon shortening', '1 teaspoon vanilla extract', "1 cup confectioners' sugar", '2 tablespoons hot water', '0.5 teaspoon almond extract']
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). Lightly grease a doughnut pan.
Mix flour, sugar, baking powder, nutmeg, cinnamon, and salt together in a large bowl. Stir in milk, eggs, shortening, and vanilla. Beat until well blended. Fill each prepared doughnut cup approximately 3/4 full.
Bake in the preheated oven until doughnuts spring back when touched, 8 to 10 minutes. Allow to cool slightly before removing from the pan.
While the doughnuts are cooling, make the glaze: Blend confectioners' sugar, hot water, and almond extract together in a small bowl. Dip doughnuts in the glaze when serving.
done!
['0.5 cup white sugar', '2.5 tablespoons butter, at room temperature', '2 large egg yolks', '2.25 cups all-purpose flour', '1.5 teaspoons baking powder', '1 teaspoon salt', '0.5 cup sour cream', '0.33333334326744 cup white sugar', '1 teaspoon cinnamon', '2 tablespoons butter, melted, or as needed']
Press 1/2 cup white sugar and butter together in a bowl until crumbly. Add egg yolks and stir until well combined.
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into a separate bowl. Place 1/3 of the flour mixture and 1/2 the sour cream into the sugar-egg mixture; stir until combined. Mix in the remaining flour and sour cream. Refrigerate dough until ready to use.
Mix 1/3 cup sugar and cinnamon together in a bowl.
Roll dough out onto a lightly floured work surface to 1/2-inch thick. Cut 9 large circles in the dough; cut a small circle out of the center of each large circle to create doughnut shapes.
Preheat an air fryer to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Brush 1/2 of the melted butter over both sides of the doughnuts.
Place 1/2 doughnuts into the basket of the air fryer; cook for 8 minutes. Paint cooked donuts with the remaining melted butter and immediately dip into the cinnamon-sugar mixture. Repeat with the remaining doughnuts.
done!
['2 cups milk', '1/2 cup butter (1 stick)', '2 teaspoon salt', '3/4 cup sugar', '1/4 teaspoon nutmeg', '2 egg (beaten)', '2 (1/4-ounce) packages active dry yeast (or 5 teaspoons)', '7 1/2 cups flour (all-purpose)', 'Optional: Blackstrap molasses']
Gather the ingredients.
In a medium saucepan, warm the milk and add butter until it has melted.
In a large bowl, add salt, sugar, and nutmeg.
Pour in the milk and melted butter mix. Stir and set aside until it's lukewarm.
When the bowl's contents are lukewarm, mix in beaten eggs and yeast.
Add 3 cups of flour. If you have a stand mixer, beat at low speed for 2 minutes and then at high speed for 2 more minutes. If you're mixing by hand mix try to add as much air as possible by vigorously mixing the batter for the last two minutes.
Once it's well mixed, add the remaining flour and mix by hand.
Turn the dough out onto a floured board and knead for about 3 minutes.
Place the dough into a greased bowl and turn it over to grease both the top and bottom. Cover with a clean kitchen towel and let it prove in a warm place for about 1 hour or until it has doubled in size.
Punch down the dough and turn it out onto a floured board.
Roll out the dough out into a 1/4-inch thick disc.
Cut it into squares.
Cover with the kitchen towel and let prove again until it doubles in size, approximately 45 minutes.
Once the squares have doubled, heat about 2 to 3 inches of cooking oil to 370 F in a heavy, deep saucepan. The frying oil is ready when a scrap of dough browns in about 1 minute.
Drop the dough squares into the hot oil. Avoid crowding the pan as too many pieces of dough can make the temperature of the oil drop.
When golden brown on the bottom side, turn the squares over.
Once uniformly golden brown, remove from heat and set the fastnachts on paper towels to cool. Remove excess oil with a paper towel.
Serve with molasses on the side and enjoy!
done!
['1 cup sugar', '1 3/4 teaspoons nutmeg', '1 1/4 teaspoons salt', '3/4 teaspoon cinnamon', '3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder', '2 tablespoons liquid shortening (or vegetable oil)', '1/2 teaspoon vanilla', '2 eggs, beaten', '1 cup milk', '3 cups flour', 'icing', '2 cups powdered sugar', '1 -2 tablespoon milk']
Mix sugar, spices, salt, and baking powder.
Add shortening and vanilla; mix.
Add eggs, mix.
Add milk and flour; mix.
Drop into hot oil using donut dropper. (if mixture is too thick mix in a bit of milk-too thin a bit of flour).
Fry in oil turning when first crack appears. -be careful not to crowd.
Remove and place on either a drying rack or brown paper bag to drain oil.
Ice while warm with powdered sugar icing.
done!
['4 tablespoons warm water', '2 tablespoons sugar', '1/2 teaspoon salt', '1 tablespoon dry active yeast', '3 cups flour', '2 tablespoons flour', '1 cup warm water', 'oil (for frying)', 'coarse sugar (optional)', 'powdered sugar (optional)', 'honey (optional)']
Make yeast starter by dissolving 2 TBS. sugar and 1/2 teaspoons salt in 4 TBS. warm water in a small bowl. Stir in 1 TBS. dried active yeast. Let proof 15 minutes.
Sift the flour into a mixing bowl. Make a well in the middle with your hands. Pour the yeast mixture into the well and begin to mix with your hand. Add a little warm water from time to time as mix, until it is the consistency of a stiff dough.
Knead dough for 10-15 minutes by machine OR by hand:pulling the dough away from the bowl, slapping it down and kneading it into the bowl again with the heel of your hand, until the dough is smooth and elastic. Little by little, add remainder of water, sprinkling 2 TBS. at a time into the bowl. Knead the dough in the bowl until water is dissolved, continuing until the dough is spongy, very elastic and very sticky.
Oil a mixing bowl lightly. Oil your hands and push dough down into the center of the original bowl with oiled hands until you can easily pick it up and transfer to the oiled bowl. Wipe any dough that might stick to your hands, dip fingers in oil again, and turn dough over in bowl. Then cover with a clean kitchen towel or plastic wrap, and allow to rise 1 -1 1/2 hours.
When dough is risen, punch it down in bowl with your fist. Heat frying oil in a pan or deep fryer.
When oil is hot, oil the fingers of both hands. Take a piece of dough approximately the size of a small egg and make a hole in the center using your fingers and twirl the dough to enlarge hole to size of a golf ball. Plunge ring of dough into hot oil. The dough will puff up.
Turn the rings once or twice until golden on both sides. Remove with a slotted spoon and allow to drain dry on kitchen paper.
Serve hot. May dip in sugar or honey or jam if desired.
done!
['peanut or corn oil for frying', '0.75 cup self-rising flour', '0.5 cup self-rising cornmeal mix', '0.25 cup sugar', '0.5 teaspoon ground cinnamon', '0.25 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg', '1 egg', '0.5 cup buttermilk', '1 tablespoon cinnamon', '0.5 cup sugar']
Heat oil in deep-fryer to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a bowl, combine the flour, cornmeal mix, sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg. In a separate bowl, beat the egg together with the buttermilk. Gradually add the egg mixture to the dry ingredients, stirring with a fork or whisk until only slightly lumpy. Be careful not to overmix.
Carefully drop batter by the rounded teaspoonful into hot oil, and fry until golden brown. Drain and cool on a paper towel-lined plate. Roll balls in a small amount of cinnamon mixed with sugar, if desired, or just enjoy plain!
done!
['1 quart vegetable oil for frying', '1 cup white sugar', '2 eggs', '2 tablespoons vegetable oil', '0.75 cup milk', '0.25 cup white vinegar', '1 teaspoon baking soda', '2 cups all-purpose flour', '2 teaspoons baking powder', '1 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon ground nutmeg']
Heat about 1 quart oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Mix sugar, eggs, and 2 tablespoons oil together in a mixing bowl.
Pour milk, vinegar, and baking soda into a liquid measuring cup; milk will become foamy. Add to sugar mixture; mix well. Mix in flour, baking powder, salt, and nutmeg.
Drop batter by teaspoonfuls into the hot oil until golden, about 1 minute per side, working in batches. Drain doughnuts on paper towels.
done!
['0.5 cup water', '1 tablespoon yeast', '0.25 cup shortening', '0.5 cup sugar', '1 teaspoon salt', '1 cup boiling water', '1 cup evaporated milk', '2 eggs, beaten', '7.5 cups flour', '1 quart vegetable oil for frying', "1 cup confectioners' sugar for dusting"]
Pour 1/2 cup room temperature water into a small bowl. Sprinkle the yeast over the water and let stand for about 5 minutes to dissolve.
Combine the shortening, sugar, and salt in a large bowl. Pour the boiling water over the shortening mixture and then stir in the evaporated milk. Wait for the mixture to cool down until it is lukewarm. Then, add the yeast and water mixture and beaten eggs.
Slowly mix in the flour until the dough forms a ball. Cover the dough with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes to 1 hour.
Working with a small portion (a little larger than a baseball) at a time, roll out the dough 1/8-inch thick. Cut the rolled out dough into strips 2 to 3-inches wide, then cut again in the opposite direction and at an angle, making diamond shapes.
Heat your oil for frying in a deep and wide, heavy-bottomed skillet over medium-high heat to 360 degree F (180 degrees C).
Slide dough slowly into the oil to avoid splattering and deep fry until they puff up and are golden brown, 3 to 5 minutes. Carefully remove onto a rack with paper towels underneath and allow to cool until you can handle them. Place in a clean paper bag with confectioners' sugar and shake gently until covered generously or, use a sifter to dust the beignets with powdered sugar.
done!
['0.75 cup scalded milk', '0.33333334326744 cup granulated sugar', '0.25 teaspoon salt', '1 (.25 ounce) envelope active dry yeast', '0.25 cup warm water', '4 cups sifted all-purpose flour', '1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg', '0.33333334326744 cup butter or margarine', '2 eggs, beaten', 'oil for deep frying', "2 cups confectioners' sugar", '6 tablespoons milk']
Stir together scalded milk, sugar, and salt in a large bowl; set aside to cool until tepid. Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl; let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Stir together flour and nutmeg in a bowl. Add 2 cups flour mixture to milk mixture; beat until well-blended.
Stir yeast mixture into milk and flour mixture, then mix in butter and eggs. Mix in remaining flour mixture, 1/2 cup at a time. When dough is firm enough, turn it onto a floured surface and knead for 3 to 4 minutes. Place into an oiled bowl, cover, and allow dough to rise until doubled, 30 to 35 minutes.
Roll dough out on a lightly floured surface to 1/2-inch thickness. Cut into circles using a donut or round cutter. Set aside to rise until light, 30 to 40 minutes.
Heat 1-inch-deep oil in a deep, heavy frying pan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Fry donuts in hot oil a few at a time. Cook each side until golden brown, then remove to drain on paper towels. Glaze while warm, or sprinkle with sugar.
Stir together confectioners' sugar and 6 tablespoons milk in a bowl until smooth. Dip warm donuts into glaze; set aside to cool.
done!
['  cup vegan margarine', '  cup soy milk', '2 tablespoons sunflower oil, plus extra for frying', '2 cups plain flour', '  cup caster sugar', '1 teaspoon baking powder', '  teaspoon salt']
Gently melt the butter over a low-medium heat. Add milk and 2 tablespoons of sunflower oil and mix together.
Once combined, take off the heat and set aside.
In a separate bowl, combine the flour, half of the sugar, baking powder and salt with a fork.
Make a well in the center and pour in the butter mixture. Combine gradually until a thick dough forms.
Using your hands, roll dough into little flat balls and with your thumb, press a hole in the center of each doughnut. (You may need to flour your hands for this part to avoid getting sticky!)
Heat up oil in a pan. To know when it's hot enough, fry a little bit of bread in the oil. If it goes brown and floats to the top, in 45-50 seconds the oil will be ready!
Gently lay the doughnuts into the oil using a spatula. Fry for about 3-5 minutes on each side, until golden brown.
Transfer the doughnuts onto some tissue paper to soak up any excess oil.
Roll the doughnut into a bowl of the remaining half of sugar.
Enjoy!
done!
['1 cup plus 2 tablespoons whole milk', '1/4 cup sugar', '2 1/4 teaspoons Active Dry Yeast (1 envelope)', '2 large eggs (lightly beaten)', '10 tablespoons unsalted butter (melted and slightly cooled)', '4 cups all-purpose flour', '1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt', 'Canola oil for frying', '3 cups powdered sugar (sifted)', '1/8 teaspoon fine sea salt', '1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract', '1/2 cup milk']
Place the milk in a microwave safe bowl or measuring cup. Microwave on high in 30-second increments until the milk is warm but not hot.
Add sugar to milk. Stir to dissolve. Add the yeast. Stir gently, then let sit for 10 minutes.
In a small bowl whisk together the eggs and melted butter. In a separate bowl, whisk together the flour and salt. Set aside.
Add the egg/butter mixture to the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the dough hook. With the mixer on medium-low speed, pour in the yeast mixture. Allow the dough hook to stir this mixture for a couple of minutes, making sure it s thoroughly combined.
With the mixer still going, add helpings of the flour mixture in 1/4 to 1/2 cup increments until all the flour is gone.
Stop the mixer, scrape the bowl, then turn the mixer on medium-low speed for five whole minutes.
After five minutes, stop the mixer and scrape the bottom of the bowl. Turn on the mixer for 30 seconds.
Turn off the mixer and allow the dough to sit in the bowl undisturbed for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, transfer dough to a lightly oiled bowl. Gently turn the dough to coat, then cover the bowl with plastic wrap.
To make the doughnuts the same day:
Place the bowl in a warm place in your kitchen and let rise for about 1 hour, until doubled in size. If your kitchen is drafty, try placing the bowl in your oven with ONLY the oven light on (do not turn the oven on).
Once doubled in size, proceed to making the doughnuts.
To make the doughnuts the next day:
Place the bowl in the refrigerator. Refrigerate the dough for at least 8 hours, or overnight. The next day, proceed to making the doughnuts.
To Make the Doughnuts
Gently turn out dough onto a lightly floured surface. Roll out to 1/4 to 1/3-inch thickness.
Using a 3-inch cutter, cut as many rounds as you can, then roll out remaining dough and cut as much as you can, etc.
Cut holes out of each round using a 1-inch cutter. If you have extra scraps of dough, use the 1-inch cutter to cut out extra doughnut holes.
Place both doughnuts and holes on a floured baking sheet.
Cover with a large tea towel and place in a warm place in your kitchen.
Allow doughnuts to rise undisturbed for at least 1 hour; 1 hour 15 minutes if necessary. Doughnuts should be visibly puffier and appear to be airy.
To Fry the Doughnuts
Heat at least 1 quart of canola oil in a large heavy-bottomed pot until the temperature reaches 375 to 380 F  do not let it get hotter than 380 F! 375 F is ideal; keep the thermometer in the pan to continually monitor and adjust your burner as necessary to maintain the temperature.
One to two at a time, gently grab doughnuts and ease them into the hot oil. Allow them to cook 1 minute on each side; they will brown very quickly.
Remove doughnuts from the oil with a slotted spoon, allowing all oil to drip off.
Place doughnut immediately on several layers of paper towels. Count to five, then flip it over onto a clean part of the paper towels. Count to five, then move the doughnut to a wire rack set over a rimmed baking sheet.
Repeat with remaining doughnuts and holes. The holes will cook more quickly than the doughnuts; about 30 seconds per side.
Allow doughnuts to slightly cool.
To Glaze
Mix all glaze ingredients in a bowl until completely smooth.
One by one, dip doughnuts into the glaze until halfway submerged. (Note: completely submerge doughnut holes, then remove with a slotted spoon.)
Remove from glaze, then return them right-side up to the wire rack still set over the rimmed baking sheet. The baking sheet will catch any excess glaze that drips off.
Serve warm if possible, or room temperature.
done!
['1 1/8 cup whole milk, warmed to 90 F (32 C)', '1/2 cup sugar', '2 1/4 teaspoons (one package) active dry yeast', '2 whole eggs, beaten, at room temperature', '3/4 cup butter, melted and cooled', '4 cups bread flour', '1 teaspoon salt', '2 quarts frying fat (lard, crisco, or neutral oil)', '1/4 cup whole milk', "2 1/2 cups confectioner's sugar", '1 teaspoon vanilla', '1 pinch salt']
For the Doughnuts: In a small bowl, whisk to combine the warm milk and sugar. Stir in the yeast and let mixture sit until it begins to foam on top, about five minutes.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the egg and melted butter and set aside. In the bowl of the stand mixer, combine the flour and salt.
Fit stand mixer with dough hook, add the milk mixture, and mix on low speed until the flour is hydrated, about 2 minutes. Increase the speed to medium and mix until a dry-looking dough forms, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low, then slowly pour in the egg mixture and mix until combined. Increase speed to medium-high and continue to mix, scraping down bowl as needed, until dough is smooth and elastic and clears sides of bowl, about 10 minutes. As it mixes, the dough should make a slapping sound against the edge of the bowl. Transfer dough to a lightly greased large bowl.. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.
Turn the cold proofed dough out onto a floured work surface and lightly dust the top of the dough. Using a rolling pin, press to flatten and roll the dough to a uniform 1/2 inch thickness.
Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with plastic wrap or silicone mats. Using a 3-inch round cutter dipped in flour, cut out rounds. Using a 1-inch round cutter dipped in flour, cut a hole out of center of each round. Transfer doughnuts and holes to prepared sheet, spacing doughnuts about 1 inch apart to accommodate expanding during proofing. Gather dough scraps, and gently reroll 1 time, repeating cutting procedure. You should have about 15 doughnuts. Place doughnuts in a warm, moist environment to proof until they are very puffy and fragile to touch, 45 minutes to 1 hour. (See note.) If you do not live in a hot, moist place, preheat the oven to its lowest setting to warm it for proofing, then turn it off.
To Prepare Frying oil and Glaze Setup: Place a large, heavy pot on the stove and clip the digital thermometer to the side of the pot. Pour in the oil and heat oil to 375 f (190 c) over medium heat. Set a wire rack inside a rimmed baking sheet and line rack with a double layer of paper towels. Set tongs, spider skimmer, or chopsticks aside until ready to fry.
For the Glaze: On another burner, warm the milk in a small saucepan set over low heat until the milk begins to steam. Remove from heat and add the confectioner's sugar, pinch of salt, and vanilla, and whisk until smooth. Pour the glaze into a heat-proof bowl and set the bowl over a small saucepan of water; set aside.
To Fry the Doughnuts: Gently place 3 risen doughnuts into 375 F oil and fry until donuts are golden brown on bottom side, 1 to 2 minutes. Using tongs, spider skimmer, or tongs, gently flip doughnuts and continue to fry until golden brown on the other side, 1 to 2 minutes longer (if they are getting too dark, turn them earlier). Transfer the doughnuts to the prepared rack. Break one open to check that it is cooked. If undercooked, return doughnuts to the hot oil for an additional minute. Adjust frying time for remaining donuts as needed. Return oil to 375 degrees and repeat with remaining doughnuts and doughnut holes. Let doughnuts sit until cool enough to handle, about 10 minutes.
To Glaze the Doughnuts: Place the pot of water with the bowl of glaze set over it over low heat and stir until it returns to a pourable glaze consistency. Remove from heat and use your fingers to carefully submerge each of the doughnut in the glaze. Place the glazed doughnuts on a clean cooling rack to dry. The glaze will become more translucent as it dries. For best flavor, serve immediately.
done!
['1 1/4 cups milk', '2 1/4 teaspoons (one package) active dry yeast', '2 eggs', '8 tablespoons (1 stick) butter, melted and cooled', '1/4 cup granulated sugar', '1 teaspoon salt', '4 1/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for rolling out the dough', '2 quarts neutral oil, for frying, plus more for the bowl.', '2 cups powdered sugar', '1/4 cup milk.']
Heat the milk until it is warm but not hot, about 90 degrees. In a large bowl, combine it with the yeast. Stir lightly, and let sit until the mixture is foamy, about 5 minutes.
Using an electric mixer or a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, beat the eggs, butter, sugar and salt into the yeast mixture. Add half of the flour (2 cups plus 2 tablespoons), and mix until combined, then mix in the rest of the flour until the dough pulls away from the sides of the bowl. Add more flour, about 2 tablespoons at a time, if the dough is too wet. If you re using an electric mixer, the dough will probably become too thick to beat; when it does, transfer it to a floured surface, and gently knead it until smooth. Grease a large bowl with a little oil. Transfer the dough to the bowl, and cover. Let rise at room temperature until it doubles in size, about 1 hour.
Turn the dough out onto a well-floured surface, and roll it to 1/2-inch thickness. Cut out the doughnuts with a doughnut cutter, concentric cookie cutters or a drinking glass and a shot glass (the larger one should be about 3 inches in diameter), flouring the cutters as you go. Reserve the doughnut holes. If you re making filled doughnuts, don t cut out the middle. Knead any scraps together, being careful not to overwork, and let rest for a few minutes before repeating the process.
Put the doughnuts on two floured baking sheets so that there is plenty of room between each one. Cover with a kitchen towel, and let rise in a warm place until they are slightly puffed up and delicate, about 45 minutes. If your kitchen isn t warm, heat the oven to 200 at the beginning of this step, then turn off the heat, put the baking sheets in the oven and leave the door ajar.
About 15 minutes before the doughnuts are done rising, put the oil in a heavy-bottomed pot or Dutch oven over medium heat, and heat it to 375. Meanwhile, line cooling racks, baking sheets or plates with paper towels.
Carefully add the doughnuts to the oil, a few at a time. If they re too delicate to pick up with your fingers (they may be this way only if you rose them in the oven), use a metal spatula to pick them up and slide them into the oil. It s O.K. if they deflate a bit; they ll puff back up as they fry. When the bottoms are deep golden, after 45 seconds to a minute, use a slotted spoon to flip; cook until they re deep golden all over. Doughnut holes cook faster. Transfer the doughnuts to the prepared plates or racks, and repeat with the rest of the dough, adjusting the heat as needed to keep the oil at 375. Glaze or fill as follows, and serve as soon as possible.
Whisk together 2 cups powdered sugar, 1/4 cup milk and 1 teaspoon vanilla until smooth. When the doughnuts are cool enough to handle, dip into the glaze; if you like, flip them so the tops they re completely covered. Put on racks to let the glaze harden.
done!
['0.25 cup butter, melted', '0.5 cup white sugar', '0.25 cup brown sugar', '1 teaspoon ground cinnamon', '0.25 teaspoon ground nutmeg', '1 (16.3 ounce) package refrigerated flaky biscuit dough (such as Pillsbury  Grands!  Flaky Layers)']
Place melted butter in a bowl. Combine white sugar, brown sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg in a second bowl.
Separate biscuit dough into individual biscuits and cut out the centers using a biscuit cutter (or the bottom of a piping tip) to create a doughnut shape. Place doughnuts in the air fryer basket.
Air fry at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) until golden brown, 4 to 6 minutes. Flip doughnuts and cook an additional 1 to 3 minutes.
Remove doughnuts from air fryer. Dip each doughnut into melted butter (making sure to coat top, bottom, and sides), followed by sugar-cinnamon mixture until completed coated. Serve immediately.