['1 (4 pound) chicken, cut into pieces', '1 cup buttermilk', '2 cups all-purpose flour for coating', '1 teaspoon paprika', 'salt and pepper to taste', '2 quarts vegetable oil for frying']
Take your cut up chicken pieces and skin them if you prefer.
Put the flour in a large plastic bag (let the amount of chicken you are cooking dictate the amount of flour you use). Season the flour with paprika, salt and pepper to taste (paprika helps to brown the chicken).
Dip chicken pieces in buttermilk then, a few at a time, put them in the bag with the flour, seal the bag and shake to coat well.
Place the coated chicken on a cookie sheet or tray, and cover with a clean dish towel or waxed paper. LET SIT UNTIL THE FLOUR IS OF A PASTE-LIKE CONSISTENCY. THIS IS CRUCIAL!
Fill a large skillet (cast iron is best) about 1/3 to 1/2 full with vegetable oil. Heat until VERY hot.
Put in as many chicken pieces as the skillet can hold. Brown the chicken in HOT oil on both sides.
When browned, reduce heat and cover skillet; let cook for 30 minutes (the chicken will be cooked through but not crispy). Remove cover, raise heat again, and continue to fry until crispy.
Drain the fried chicken on paper towels. Depending on how much chicken you have, you may have to fry in a few shifts. Keep the finished chicken in a slightly warm oven while preparing the rest.
done!
['4 cups all-purpose flour, divided', '2 tablespoons garlic salt', '1 tablespoon paprika', '3 teaspoons pepper, divided', '2-1/2 teaspoons poultry seasoning', '2 large eggs', '1-1/2 cups water', '1 teaspoon salt', '2 broiler/fryer chickens (3-1/2 to 4 pounds each), cut up', 'Oil for deep-fat frying']
In a large shallow dish, combine 2-2/3 cups flour, garlic salt, paprika, 2-1/2 teaspoons pepper and poultry seasoning. In another shallow dish, beat eggs and 1-1/2 cups water; add salt and the remaining 1-1/3 cups flour and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Dip chicken in egg mixture, then place in flour mixture, a few pieces at a time. Turn to coat.
In a deep-fat fryer, heat oil to 375 . Fry chicken, several pieces at a time, until chicken is golden brown and juices run clear, 7-8 minutes on each side. Drain on paper towels.
done!
['1 cup shortening', '2 cups all-purpose flour', '1 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon ground black pepper', '1 (3 pound) whole chicken, cut into pieces']
Heat shortening in a large, cast iron skillet over medium-high heat.
Meanwhile, combine flour, salt, and pepper in a brown paper lunch bag. Add two chicken pieces, seal the bag, and toss to coat. Place coated chicken into the hot skillet and repeat with remaining chicken until all pieces are coated and in the skillet.
Fry chicken until browned, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Reduce the heat to medium-low, cover, and cook for 25 minutes. Remove the lid and increase the heat to medium-high; continue cooking until chicken is deep golden brown and the juices run clear, about 5 more minutes. An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
done!
['3 chicken leg quarters, cut into thighs and drumsticks', '2 cups buttermilk, or as needed to cover', '0.75 cup all-purpose flour', '0.25 cup cornmeal', '1 tablespoon salt', '1 teaspoon granulated onion', '1 teaspoon granulated garlic', '1 teaspoon ground thyme', '0.5 teaspoon paprika', '0.25 teaspoon monosodium glutamate (MSG)', '0.25 teaspoon baking powder', '0.125 teaspoon cayenne pepper', '4 large egg whites, beaten until foamy', '4 cups vegetable oil for frying, or as needed']
Place chicken thighs and drumsticks in a bowl and pour enough buttermilk over chicken to cover. Cover and refrigerate for 12 to 24 hours.
Combine flour, cornmeal, salt, granulated onion, granulated garlic, thyme, paprika, monosodium glutamate, baking powder, and cayenne pepper in a large, wide bowl.
Remove chicken from buttermilk and shake off excess; discard buttermilk. Pat chicken dry with paper towels. Dip chicken in beaten egg whites, then press in flour mixture to coat. Allow coated chicken to rest on a wire rack for 20 to 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, fill a cast iron skillet or deep fryer to about 1/3 full of oil and heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C).
Fry chicken in hot oil in batches until golden brown, no longer pink in the center, and the juices run clear, 8 to 10 minutes per side. An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of chicken near the bone should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C). Transfer fried chicken to a wire rack or a paper towel-lined tray to drain. Keep fried chicken warm in the preheated oven while frying remaining pieces.
done!
['2 teaspoons garlic powder, or to taste', '1 teaspoon ground black pepper', '1 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon paprika', '0.5 cup seasoned bread crumbs', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '0.5 cup milk', '1 egg', '4 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves - pounded thin', '1 cup oil for frying, or as needed']
In a shallow dish, mix together the garlic powder, pepper, salt, paprika, bread crumbs and flour. In a separate dish, whisk together the milk and egg.
Heat the oil in an electric skillet set to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Dip the chicken into the egg and milk, then dredge in the dry ingredients until evenly coated.
Fry chicken in the hot oil for about 5 minutes per side, or until the chicken is cooked through and juices run clear. Remove from the oil with a slotted spatula, and serve.
done!
['2 cups bread crumbs', '3 tablespoons lemon-pepper seasoning', '2 teaspoons dried basil', '1 teaspoon dried oregano', '1.5 teaspoons garlic powder', 'salt to taste', '4 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves', '2 large eggs, beaten', 'vegetable oil for frying']
Mix bread crumbs, lemon-pepper seasoning, basil, oregano, garlic powder, and salt together in a shallow dish.
Pat chicken pieces dry with paper towels, dip in beaten eggs, and dredge through bread crumb mixture.
Heat enough oil to thickly coat the bottom of a frying pan over medium heat. Fry chicken until golden brown and no longer pink in the center, 8 to 10 minutes per side. An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of a chicken breast should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
done!
['0.5 cup milk', '1 egg, beaten', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '2 teaspoons garlic salt', '1 teaspoon paprika', '1 teaspoon ground black pepper', '0.25 teaspoon poultry seasoning', '1 (4 pound) whole chicken, cut into pieces', '3 cups vegetable oil', '1 cup chicken broth', '1 cup milk']
In a medium bowl, beat together 1/2 cup milk and egg. In a resealable plastic bag, mix together the flour, garlic salt, paprika, pepper and poultry seasoning. Place chicken in bag, seal, and shake to coat. Dip chicken in milk and egg mixture, then once more in flour mixture. Reserve any remaining flour mixture.
In a large skillet, heat oil to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C). Place coated chicken in the hot oil, and brown on all sides. Reduce heat to medium-low, and continue cooking chicken until tender, about 30 minutes. Remove chicken from skillet, and drain on paper towels.
Discard all but 2 tablespoons of the frying oil. Over low heat, stir in 2 tablespoons of the reserved flour mixture. Stirring constantly, cook about 2 minutes. Whisk in chicken stock, scraping browned bits off bottom of skillet. Stir in 1 cup milk, and bring all to a boil over high heat, stirring constantly. Reduce heat to low, and simmer for about 5 minutes. Serve immediately with the chicken.
done!
['1 quart vegetable oil for frying', '4.333 cups all-purpose flour, divided', '1.5 tablespoons garlic salt', '1 tablespoon ground black pepper', '1 tablespoon paprika', '0.5 teaspoon poultry seasoning', '1.5 cups beer, or as needed', '2 egg yolks, beaten', '1 teaspoon salt', '0.25 teaspoon ground black pepper', '1 (3 pound) whole chicken, cut into pieces']
Heat oil in a deep fryer to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix 3 cups flour, garlic salt, 1 tablespoon pepper, paprika, and poultry seasoning together in a medium bowl.
Stir 1 1/2 cups beer, remaining 1 1/3 cups flour, egg yolks, salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper together in a separate bowl; thin with more beer if batter is too thick.
Moisten chicken pieces with a little water, then dip in seasoned flour mixture. Shake off excess and dip in beer batter, then dip in the seasoned flour mixture once more.
Lower chicken pieces carefully into the hot oil in batches. Fry until crispy and well-browned, about 15 to 18 minutes. An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C). Transfer to a paper towel-lined plate to drain.
done!
['1 (4 pound) chicken, cut into pieces', 'salt and pepper to taste', '1.5 cups all-purpose flour for coating', '2 quarts vegetable oil for frying']
In a large skillet, heat oil over medium heat. Salt and pepper chicken pieces to taste, then roll in flour to coat. Place chicken pieces in skillet and fry on medium heat until one side is golden brown, then turn and brown other side until chicken is no longer pink inside and its juices run clear. Drain on paper towel and serve!
done!
[]
'NoneType' object has no attribute 'ol'
Error
['2 cups buttermilk', '1 tablespoon Dijon mustard', '1 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon ground black pepper', '1 teaspoon cayenne pepper', '1 whole chicken, cut into pieces', '2 cups all-purpose flour', '1 tablespoon baking powder', '1 tablespoon garlic powder', '1 tablespoon onion powder', '5 cups vegetable oil for frying']
Whisk together buttermilk, mustard, salt, pepper, and cayenne in a bowl.
Pour buttermilk marinade into a resealable plastic bag. Add chicken pieces, coat with marinade, squeeze out excess air, and seal the bag. Marinate in the refrigerator for 2 to 8 hours.
Combine flour, baking powder, garlic powder, and onion powder in another resealable plastic bag; shake to mix thoroughly.
Working with one piece at a time, transfer marinated chicken to the dry ingredient bag, seal the bag, and shake well to coat. After all chicken pieces are coated, repeat the process by dipping them in buttermilk marinade and shaking in the dry coating again. Then heat oil in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Place chicken on the pan.
Fry chicken in batches in hot oil, turning chicken occasionally, until golden brown and juices run clear. An instant-read thermometer inserted into the meat should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
Serve hot and enjoy!
done!
['2 eggs', '1.5 cups all-purpose flour', '1 tablespoon rubbed sage', '1 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon ground black pepper', '0.5 teaspoon onion powder', '0.5 teaspoon garlic powder', '2 cups vegetable oil for frying, or as needed', '4 chicken leg quarters, cut into thighs and drumsticks']
Beat the eggs thoroughly in a shallow bowl. Sift together the flour, sage, salt, black pepper, onion powder, and garlic powder in a bowl to combine.
Heat the vegetable oil in a large, deep skillet over medium-high heat. Oil should be about 2 inches deep. Dip chicken pieces into the beaten egg, then dredge in the seasoned flour to thoroughly coat.
Fry chicken in the hot oil until golden brown on the first side, about 10 minutes; reduce heat to medium, and fry chicken on second side until golden brown and the meat is no longer pink inside, about 20 more minutes. An instant-read meat thermometer inserted into the thickest part of a thigh should read 160 degrees F (70 degrees C).
done!
['1 (3 1/2) pound chicken, cut into 8 pieces', '1 teaspoon black pepper', '1 teaspoon salt', '1 teaspoon paprika', '0.5 teaspoon white pepper', '0.25 teaspoon dried rosemary', '0.25 teaspoon ground thyme', '0.25 teaspoon dried oregano', '0.25 teaspoon dried sage', '0.25 teaspoon cayenne pepper', '2 cups buttermilk', '2 cups flour', '1 teaspoon salt', '0.5 teaspoon paprika', '0.5 teaspoon cayenne pepper', '0.5 teaspoon garlic powder', '0.5 teaspoon white pepper', '0.5 teaspoon onion powder', '2.5 quarts peanut oil for frying']
Gather all ingredients.
Toss chicken pieces, black pepper, salt, paprika, white pepper, rosemary, thyme, oregano, sage, and cayenne together in a large bowl.
Stir in buttermilk until chicken is evenly coated. Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours.
Combine flour, salt, paprika, cayenne, garlic powder, white pepper, and onion powder in a large shallow dish.
Remove chicken from buttermilk and dredge each piece in seasoned flour; shake off any excess and transfer to a plate.
Heat peanut oil in a large Dutch oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Add chicken pieces to the hot oil and fry for 10 minutes. Turn chicken pieces and fry for another 10 to 15 minutes. An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
Transfer fried chicken to a cooling rack set over a paper towel-lined baking sheet. Let sit for 10 minutes before serving.
Enjoy!
done!
['3 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves', '12 dill pickle slices, with brine', 'peanut oil for frying', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '2 tablespoons powdered sugar', '1 teaspoon salt', 'paprika', '0.5 teaspoon ground black pepper', '0.5 teaspoon celery salt', '0.5 teaspoon dried basil', '2 large eggs', 'milk', '2 tablespoons butter, softened', '6 sandwich buns']
Place each chicken breast between two sheets of heavy plastic on a solid, level surface. Firmly pound chicken with the smooth side of a meat mallet to an even thickness. Cut each breast in half and place in a bowl. Pour pickle brine on top and let sit for 1 hour.
Meanwhile, mix flour, powdered sugar, salt, paprika, pepper, celery salt, and basil in a bowl.
Whisk eggs and milk together in another bowl.
Drain liquid from the chicken and rinse off briefly. Shake any excess liquid from chicken.
Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large skillet to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Dip each piece of chicken into the flour mixture, then into the egg-milk mixture, then coat again with the flour. Dip each piece again, if desired.
Deep-fry chicken, a few pieces at a time, until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes per side. An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read at least 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
Let chicken rest on a cooling rack set over a baking sheet for 5 minutes. While chicken is resting, lightly butter each sandwich bun and toast them in a skillet.
Add 2 pickle slices to the bottom of each bun, then a chicken piece, then top with the other bun. Repeat to make remaining sandwiches.
done!
['2 eggs, lightly beaten', '0.5 teaspoon salt', '0.5 teaspoon black pepper', '0.5 teaspoon white sugar', '1 tablespoon minced garlic', '1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger root', '1 tablespoon sesame oil', '1 tablespoon soy sauce', '0.125 teaspoon chicken bouillon granules', '1.5 pounds skinless, boneless chicken breast halves - cut into 1 inch cubes', '3 tablespoons potato starch', '1 tablespoon rice flour', 'oil for frying']
In a large bowl, mix together eggs, salt, pepper, sugar, garlic, ginger, sesame oil, soy sauce, and bouillon. Add chicken pieces, and stir to coat. Cover, and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Remove bowl from refrigerator, add potato starch and rice flour to meat, and mix well.
In a large skillet or deep fryer, heat oil to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C). Place chicken in hot oil, and fry until golden brown. Cook meat in batches to maintain oil temperature. Drain briefly on paper towels. Serve hot.
done!
['12 chicken thighs', '1 cup all-purpose flour', 'salt and pepper to taste', '1 cup Italian seasoned bread crumbs', '3 eggs', '0.5 cup vegetable oil', '1 teaspoon paprika']
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Place flour in a shallow plate or bowl and season with salt and pepper to taste. Put bread crumbs in another shallow plate or bowl and beat eggs in another bowl.
Dredge chicken piece by piece in the flour, then the egg, then the bread crumbs, until all pieces are coated.
Pour oil into a large baking dish; add the breaded chicken thighs and sprinkle with paprika to taste.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and drain on paper towels.
Serve hot and enjoy!
done!
['1 (4 pound) whole chicken, cut into pieces', 'salt and pepper to taste', '0.5 cup honey', '1 tablespoon garlic powder', '1 packet chicken bouillon granules', '2 cups all-purpose flour', '1 quart vegetable oil for frying']
Season chicken pieces with salt and pepper, then coat each seasoned chicken piece with honey.
In a shallow dish or bowl, mix together the garlic powder, chicken bouillon granules, and flour. Dredge honey-coated chicken pieces in flour mixture, coating completely.
Fill a large, heavy skillet with oil to a depth of 1 inch. Heat over medium-high heat.
Fry until chicken is no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear, about 5 minutes per side. An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
done!
['1 (4 pound) whole chicken, cut into pieces', '6 cloves garlic, chopped', '4 tablespoons oyster sauce', '2 tablespoons curry powder', '0.5 cup vegetable oil']
To Marinate: In a nonporous glass dish or bowl, combine the garlic, oyster sauce and curry powder. Mix together. Add chicken pieces and turn to coat. Cover dish or bowl and refrigerate to marinate for at least 1/2 hour.
In a large skillet or wok, heat oil over medium high heat. Add marinated chicken (disposing of leftover marinade) and fry for 20 to 25 minutes or until chicken is crispy and brown and juices run clear.
done!
['0.66666668653488 cup all-purpose flour', '0.66666668653488 cup grated Parmesan cheese', '1.3333333730698 cups bread crumbs', '1 teaspoon poultry seasoning', '0.5 teaspoon onion powder', '0.5 teaspoon garlic powder', '0.5 teaspoon salt', '0.5 teaspoon pepper', '1.5 cups milk', '12 ounces chicken tenderloins', '1.5 cups vegetable oil for frying']
In a large plastic bag, combine the flour, Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, poultry seasoning, onion powder, garlic powder, salt and pepper. Shake to mix.
Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat until a drop of water evaporates immediately. Dip one piece of chicken at a time into the milk, and then place in the bag with the coating. Shake until fully coated. Place in the frying pan, and continue with remaining chicken.
Cook until the edges are browned, then flip and cook until browned on the other side. If some chicken is done sooner, keep on a paper towel lined plate in a warm oven, so that the chicken is all still warm at serving time.
done!
['1 (3 pound) whole chicken, cut into 6 pieces', '2 eggs, beaten', '1 (12 fluid ounce) can evaporated milk', '2 teaspoons salt', '2 teaspoons ground black pepper', '2 teaspoons garlic powder', '2 teaspoons onion powder', '2.5 cups all-purpose flour', '1.5 cups vegetable oil for frying']
In a medium size bowl mix together the eggs and milk. Add ALMOST all of the salt, pepper, garlic powder, and onion powder (reserve a dash of each for seasoning the chicken pieces). Set aside.
Sprinkle a dash of the remaining salt, pepper, garlic powder and onion powder onto both sides of the chicken pieces.
In a large skillet, heat the oil over medium heat. Put the flour in a plastic bag. One piece at a time, dip the chicken into the egg/milk mixture then add to the plastic bag. Shake the bag so that the flour is covering each piece of chicken.
You can check to see if the oil is hot enough by sprinkling a little flour in the skillet. If it fries, it's hot enough! Place the chicken pieces in the skillet. After about 5 minutes, turn the chicken over. Let chicken fry for about 15 minutes or until the meat is cooked through and the juices run clear.
Enjoy!
done!
['cold water to cover', '0.25 cup kosher salt', '8 skinless chicken legs', '3 cups all-purpose flour, divided', '1 cup buttermilk', '1.25 tablespoons baking powder', '2 teaspoons salt', '2 teaspoons cayenne pepper', '1.5 cups canola oil, for frying']
Mix cold water and kosher salt together in a large bowl until salt dissolves. Add chicken legs. Cover entire bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 2 hours.
Remove bowl from the refrigerator; drain and pat chicken dry with paper towels.
Place chicken legs in a plastic bag with 1 cup all-purpose flour and shake to coat.
Pour buttermilk into a bowl. Mix remaining flour, baking powder, salt, and cayenne in another bowl. Dip each chicken leg in buttermilk; move to flour mixture and coat well.
Heat canola oil in a deep-fryer to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Fry chicken legs in hot oil in batches until no longer pink at the bone and the juices run clear, about 15 minutes. An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
done!
['8 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves', '1 quart buttermilk', '3 shallots, finely chopped', '2 tablespoons chopped garlic', '2 tablespoons salt', '2 tablespoons white sugar', '1.25 teaspoons ground cumin', '1.5 teaspoons ground black pepper', '2 cups vegetable oil for frying, or as needed', '4 cups all purpose flour', '2 tablespoons baking powder', '2 teaspoons salt', '8 large eggs, beaten']
Place chicken breasts between two sheets of heavy plastic and pound chicken with the smooth side of a meat mallet to a thickness of 3/4 inch.
Whisk buttermilk, shallots, garlic, 2 tablespoons salt, sugar, cumin, and pepper in a bowl; transfer mixture to a resealable plastic bag. Add chicken breasts, coat with the marinade, squeeze out excess air, and seal the bag. Marinate in the refrigerator overnight.
Fill a large skillet with about 2 inches of vegetable oil and heat over medium heat.
Remove chicken from the marinade and shake off excess. Pat chicken dry with a paper towel. Discard the remaining marinade.
Sift flour, baking powder, and 2 teaspoons salt together in a shallow bowl. Press chicken breasts one at a time into flour mixture until lightly coated. Dip coated chicken into beaten eggs, then press into flour mixture again to coat; shake off excess flour.
Fry chicken breasts in batches in preheated oil until chicken is golden brown and no longer pink in the center, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Drain on a paper towel-lined platter and repeat with remaining chicken.
done!
['12 small chicken wings', '0.25 teaspoon seasoned salt, or to taste', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '1 teaspoon coarse salt', '0.5 teaspoon ground black pepper', '0.25 teaspoon cayenne pepper', '0.25 teaspoon ground paprika', '2 quarts vegetable oil for frying', "1 (12 fluid ounce) bottle Buffalo wing sauce (such as Frank's ), or to taste"]
Gather all ingredients.
Season chicken wings lightly with seasoned salt.
Mix flour, salt, black pepper, cayenne pepper, and paprika together in a wide, shallow bowl. Press wings into flour mixture to coat and arrange in a single layer on a large plate. Refrigerate coated wings for 15 to 30 minutes.
Dredge wings again in flour mixture and return to the plate. Refrigerate wings once more for 15 to 30 minutes.
Heat oil in a deep fryer or large saucepan to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Fry chicken wings in hot oil until crisp and juices run clear, 10 to 12 minutes. An instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the meat, near the bone, should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C).
Transfer fried wings to a large bowl. Drizzle sauce over wings and toss to coat.
Serve and enjoy!
done!
['30 saltine crackers', '2 tablespoons all-purpose flour', '2 tablespoons dry potato flakes', '1 teaspoon seasoned salt', '0.5 teaspoon ground black pepper', '1 egg', '6 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves', '2 cups vegetable oil for frying']
Place crackers in a large resealable plastic bag; seal bag and crush crackers with a rolling pin until they are coarse crumbs. Add the flour, potato flakes, seasoned salt, and pepper and mix well.
Beat egg in a shallow dish or bowl. One by one, dredge chicken pieces in egg, then place in bag with crumb mixture. Seal bag and shake to coat.
Heat oil in a deep-fryer or large saucepan to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Fry chicken, turning frequently, until golden brown and juices run clear, 15 to 20 minutes.
done!
['150g/5 oz Greek yoghurt', '2 tbsp rice vinegar', '3cm/ in fresh root ginger, grated', '5 garlic cloves, grated', '1 tsp chilli powder', '1 tsp ground turneric', '1 tsp ground cumin', '1 tsp ground coriander', 'pinch allspice', '1 tsp sea salt', '8 chicken thigh fillets', '50g/1 oz plain flour', '50g/1 oz rice flour', '  tsp sea salt', '  tsp white pepper', '  tsp chilli powder', '100ml/3 fl oz vegetable oil', '1 green chilli, sliced', '1 garlic clove, sliced', "handful fresh (or dried if you can't find) curry leaves", 'lemon wedges, to serve', 'green salad, to serve']
For the marinade, mix together the yoghurt, vinegar, ginger, garlic, spices and salt in a bowl, add the chicken, coat and leave to marinade, covered, in the fridge for 1 - 3 hours.
For the flour coating, mix together the flours and seasoning. Toss the chicken thighs in the flour mixture, one at a time, and place on a plate.
Add the oil to a large frying pan or wok and heat on a medium heat. Add the chilli, garlic and curry leaves and cook for 3 - 5 minutes, until the leaves start to crisp and the garlic goes golden-brown. Scoop them out with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper. This will really flavour the oil.
Lay the chicken in the oil and cook on a medium heat for 5 minutes on each side, until cooked through and are golden-brown. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper. Sprinkle over the chilli, garlic and curry leaves and serve with lemon wedges and a massive green salad. I make one with Little Gems, spring onions and mint.
done!
['5 chicken leg quarters, raw skin only', 'vegetable oil for frying', 'salt to taste']
Place chicken skins in a large stockpot. Cover with water. Bring to a boil and cook for 10 minutes. Drain and transfer to a cutting board. Using a sharp knife, scrape off excess fat and cut skin into 1/2-inch wide strips.
Place skin on a baking sheet and refrigerate, uncovered, for at least 8 hours.
Heat oil in a large stockpot to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Lower a handful of skins carefully into the hot oil. Fry until crisp, about 4 minutes. Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to drain and sprinkle with salt. Repeat with remaining chicken skin.
done!
['4 (1/2 pound) beef cube steaks', '2.25 cups all-purpose flour, divided', '2 teaspoons baking powder', '1 teaspoon baking soda', '1 teaspoon black pepper', '0.75 teaspoon salt', '1.5 cups buttermilk', '1 tablespoon hot pepper sauce (e.g. Tabasco )', '1 large egg', '2 cloves garlic, minced', '3 cups vegetable shortening for frying', '4 cups milk', 'kosher salt and ground black pepper to taste']
Place steaks between 2 layers of plastic and pound to a thickness of 1/4 inch.
Place 2 cups flour in a shallow bowl.
Stir together baking powder, baking soda 1 teaspoon pepper, and 3/4 teaspoon salt in second shallow bowl. Add buttermilk, Tabasco sauce, egg, and garlic; stir to combine.
Heat shortening in a deep cast-iron skillet to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). Place a wire rack over a sheet of parchment paper.
While the shortening is heating, dredge a steak in flour to coat; shake off excess. Dip into buttermilk batter; lift up so excess batter drips back into the bowl. Press in flour again to coat both sides completely. Place breaded steak on the wire rack and repeat to bread remaining steaks.
Fry steaks, in batches if necessary, until evenly golden brown, 3 to 5 minutes per side. Remove steaks to a paper towel-lined plate to drain. Cover with foil to keep warm while you make the gravy.
Drain fat from the skillet, reserving 1/4 cup of the liquid and as much of the solid remnants as possible.
Return the skillet to medium-low heat; add the reserved oil. Whisk the remaining 1/4 cup flour into the oil. Scrape the bottom of the pan with a spatula to release solids into the gravy.
Stir in milk, increase the heat to medium, and bring the gravy to a simmer. Cook, stirring often, until thick, 6 to 7 minutes. Season with kosher salt and pepper.
Transfer steaks to a platter and pour gravy over top.
done!
[]
'NoneType' object is not iterable
Error
['1 (4-lb.) whole chicken, cut into 8 pieces', '2 cups whole buttermilk', '1 cup dill pickle juice (from 1 [46-oz.] jar dill pickles)', '1/4 cup hot sauce, plus more for serving', '2 tsp. kosher salt, divided', '8 cups canola oil or vegetable oil', '2 cups (about 8 1/2 oz.) all-purpose flour', '1 tsp. garlic powder', '1 tsp. onion powder', '1 tsp. paprika', '1 tsp. seasoned salt', '1 tsp. black pepper', '1/4 tsp. cayenne pepper', 'Hot pickled peppers']
Marinate chicken: Place chicken, buttermilk, pickle juice, hot sauce, and 1 teaspoon of the kosher salt in a large bowl; toss well to ensure chicken is completely coated in buttermilk mixture. Cover and marinate in refrigerator at least 4 hours or up to 8 hours.
Heat oil: Let chicken stand at room temperature for 15 minutes. Heat oil in a large, deep skillet or Dutch oven over high to 325 F.
Make flour mixture: Meanwhile, place flour, garlic powder, onion powder, paprika, seasoned salt, black pepper, cayenne pepper, and remaining 1 teaspoon kosher salt in a large ziplock plastic bag. Seal bag; shake and mix spices evenly into flour.
Shake to coat chicken in seasoned flour mixture: Place a few pieces of chicken in bag; seal bag, and shake and until well coated. Remove chicken, and place on a wire rack set over a baking sheet. Repeat process with remaining chicken.
Fry chicken: Working in batches of 2 to 3 pieces, fry chicken in hot oil, turning occasionally using a wire spider or tongs, and adjusting heat level as needed to maintain oil temperature, until golden brown and a thermometer inserted into thickest portion of chicken registers 165 F, 10 to 15 minutes per batch. Transfer to paper towel-lined baking sheet to drain. Serve with hot pickled peppers and additional hot sauce.