Good Old-Fashioned Pancakes
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
3 ½ teaspoons baking powder
1 tablespoon white sugar
¼ teaspoon salt, or more to taste
1 ¼ cups milk
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 egg
Sift flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt together in a large bowl
Make a well in the center and add milk, melted butter, and egg; mix until smooth.
Heat a lightly oiled griddle or pan over medium-high heat
Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle, using approximately 1/4 cup for each pancake; cook until bubbles form and the edges are dry, about 2 to 3 minutes
Flip and cook until browned on the other side
Repeat with remaining batter.
Best Homemade Pancakes
2 cups all-purpose flour, spooned into measuring cup and leveled off
4 teaspoons baking powder
¼ cup sugar
1 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1½ cups milk, plus more if necessary
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and slightly cooled, plus more for cooking
Vegetable oil, for cooking
In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt.
In a medium bowl, whisk the eggs and milk until evenly combined.
Pour the milk/egg mixture and the melted butter into the dry ingredients and whisk until just combined
If the batter seems too thick, add 1 to 2 tablespoons more milk.
Heat a griddle or nonstick pan over medium heat; coat it lightly with vegetable oil and swirl in a thin pat of butter
Ladle or drop the batter onto the griddle, using approximately ¼ cup for each pancake; cook until the first side is golden brown, or until the top surface bubbles and is dotted with holes
Flip and cook until the other side is golden brown
This happens quickly so peek after 30 seconds and watch carefully! Adjust the heat setting if necessary
Wipe the griddle clean with a paper towel between batches
Serve immediately with maple syrup.
Freezer-Friendly Instructions: The pancakes can be frozen for up to 3 months
After they are completely cooled, place a sheet of parchment or wax paper between each pancake and stack together
Wrap the stack of pancakes tightly in aluminum foil or place inside a heavy-duty freezer bag
To reheat, place them in a single layer on a baking sheet and cover with foil
Bake in a 375°F oven for about 8 to 10 minutes, or until hot.
Easy Basic Pancakes
1 cup all-purpose flour, (spooned and leveled)
2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
0.5 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, or vegetable oil
1 large egg
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
Assorted toppings, such as butter, maple syrup, confectioners' sugar, honey, jams, preserves, sweetened whipped cream, or chocolate syrup
Steps to Make It
Gather ingredients and preheat oven: Preheat oven to 200 degrees
Have a baking sheet or heatproof platter ready to keep cooked pancakes warm in the oven.
Mix dry ingredients: In a small bowl, whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt; set aside.
Mix wet ingredients: In a medium bowl, whisk together milk, butter (or oil), and egg.
Combine wet and dry ingredients: Add dry ingredients to milk mixture; whisk until just moistened
(Do not overmix; a few small lumps are fine.)
Heat and oil skillet or griddle: Heat a large skillet (nonstick or cast-iron) or griddle over medium
Fold a sheet of paper towel in half, and moisten with oil; carefully rub skillet with oiled paper towel.
Spoon batter onto skillet or griddle: For each pancake, spoon 2 to 3 tablespoons of batter onto skillet, using the back of the spoon to spread batter into a round (you should be able to fit 2 to 3 in a large skillet).
Cook first side: Cook until surface of pancakes have some bubbles and a few have burst, 1 to 2 minutes.
Flip pancakes:
Serve immediately, or keep warm in oven: Transfer to a baking sheet or platter; cover loosely with aluminum foil, and keep warm in oven
Continue with more oil and remaining batter
(You'll have 12 to 15 pancakes.) Serve warm, with desired toppings.
Easy pancake recipe
2 eggs
450.63 gm milk
4.40 gm vanilla essence
300.00 gm white self-raising flour
70.95 gm caster sugar
Butter, for frying, plus extra, to serve
Maple syrup, to serve
Whisk eggs, milk and vanilla together in a jug
Sift flour into a large bowl
Stir in sugar
Make a well in the centre
Add milk mixture
Whisk until just combined.
Heat a large non-stick frying pan over medium heat
Grease pan with butter or spray with cooking oil
Using 1/4 cup mixture per pancake, cook 2 pancakes for 2 minutes or until bubbles appear on surface
Turn and cook for a further 1-2 minutes or until cooked through
Transfer to a plate
Cover loosely with foil to keep warm
Repeat with remaining mixture, greasing pan with butter or cooking oil between batches.
Serve with maple syrup and extra butter.
Easy pancakes
100g plain flour
2 large eggs
300ml milk
1 tbsp sunflower or vegetable oil, plus a little extra for frying
lemon wedges , to serve (optional)
caster sugar , to serve (optional)
Put 100g plain flour, 2 large eggs, 300ml milk, 1 tbsp sunflower or vegetable oil and a pinch of salt into a bowl or large jug, then whisk to a smooth batter
This should be similar in consistency to single cream.
Set aside for 30 mins to rest if you have time, or start cooking straight away.
Set a medium frying pan or crêpe pan over a medium heat and carefully wipe it with some oiled kitchen paper.
When hot, cook your pancakes for 1 min on each side until golden, using around half a ladleful of batter per pancake
Keep them warm in a low oven as you make the rest.
Serve with lemon wedges and caster sugar, or your favourite filling
Once cold, you can layer the pancakes between baking parchment, then wrap in cling film and freeze for up to two months.
Pete's Scratch Pancakes
2 cups flour
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon baking powder
2 eggs, beat them separately before adding to mixture
1/4 cup butter, melted (1/8 of a pound)
1 3/4 cups milk
Mix the dry items first.
Combine the eggs and melted butter to the milk and slowly stir into the flour mixture.
Heat the griddle to325 F or the pan to medium high let sit at least 10 minutes while heating the griddle orpan.
These will be high, but light and fluffy -- .
Pancakes
1 egg
3/4 cup milk
2 tablespoons butter or 2 tablespoons margarine, melted
1 cup flour
1 tablespoon sugar (or 1/2 teaspoon honey or molasses)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
Beat egg until fluffy.
Add milk and melted margarine.
Add dry ingredients and mix well.
Heat a heavy griddle or fry pan which is greased with a little butter on a paper towel.
The pan is hot enough when a drop of water breaks into several smaller balls which 'dance' around the pan.
Pour a small amount of batter (approx 1/4 cup) into pan and tip to spread out or spread with spoon.
When bubbles appear on surface and begin to break, turn over and cook the other side.
Easy Pancakes
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons white sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 egg, beaten
Combine flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl
Make a well in the center, and pour in milk, oil, and egg
Mix until smooth.
Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium-high heat
Pour or scoop batter onto the griddle, using approximately 1/4 cup for each pancake; cook until bubbles form and the edges are dry, 1 to 2 minutes
Flip and cook until browned on the other side
Repeat with remaining batter.
Serve hot and enjoy!
Perfect Pancakes
2 c. all-purpose flour
4 generous tbsp. granulated sugar
1 heaping tbsp. baking powder
1/2 tsp. baking soda
1/2 tsp. salt (iodized)
1 1/4 c. whole milk, plus more as needed for thinning
3/4 c. buttermilk
1 large egg
1 tbsp. vanilla extract (generous tablespoon)
4 tbsp. salted butter, melted, plus more for greasing griddle and serving
Maple or pancake syrup
In a large bowl, stir together the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the milk, buttermilk, egg, and vanilla
While whisking briskly, drizzle in the melted butter.
Using a rubber spatula, start gently stirring the dry ingredients while slowly pouring in the wet ingredients
Switch to folding once all the wet ingredients have been added to avoid overworking the batter
Continue folding until everything is combined
The batter should still be lumpy (don't try to stir the lumps out).
Important: Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and allow the batter to rest on the counter for 45 minutes to 1 hour (if you can! If you don't have time, don't sweat it—they'll still be good.)
Before frying, add up to 1/4 cup additional milk if you want thinner pancakes
(Or leave as is if you like them thick and fluffy.)
Heat a griddle or skillet over medium heat
Smear with butter and drop 1/3 cup (or 1/4 cup if you prefer smaller pancakes) helpings on the griddle
Let cook until bubbles form on the surface, then flip and cook for another 1 to 1 1/2 minutes
Serve with an obscene amount of butter and warm syrup.
Best Homemade Pancakes
1 1/2 c. (180 g.) all-purpose flour
1 tbsp. granulated sugar
2 tsp. baking powder
1 tsp. kosher salt
1 1/3 c. whole milk
1 large egg
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
2 tbsp. melted unsalted butter, plus more, softened, for cooking and serving
Maple syrup, for serving
In a medium bowl, whisk flour, granulated sugar, baking powder, and salt
In a large bowl, whisk milk, egg, and vanilla
While whisking, stream in melted butter and whisk to combine.
Gently fold dry ingredients into milk mixture until just combined (do not overmix; some lumps are okay).
Preheat a griddle or other large heavy skillet over medium heat until hot but not scorching, 2 to 3 minutes.
Melt enough butter to cover surface of griddle, then pour about 1/4 cup batter onto griddle
Cook pancake until bubbles form on top and sides start to lift from pan, 2 to 3 minutes
Flip and cook until bottom is golden brown and pancake is fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack
Wipe off griddle, then repeat with more butter and remaining batter (you should get about 10 pancakes).
Divide pancakes among plates
Serve with butter and syrup.
Simple, Fluffy Pancakes
2 cups / 300g plain / all purpose flour ((Note 1))
4 tsp baking powder ((Note 1))
1/4 cup / 55g white sugar ((caster / super fine is best but not essential))
Pinch of salt
1 egg
1 3/4 cups / 435 ml cups milk ((any type, any fat %))
1 tsp vanilla extract or essence
4 tsp butter (, for cooking)
Place flour, baking powder, sugar and salt in a bowl, whisk to combine.
Add egg, milk and vanilla
Whisk until lump free - no longer than 30 seconds.
Heat a non stick skillet - use medium heat if you have a strong stove, medium high if you have a weak one
Add a tiny bit of butter (about 1/2 tsp) and swirl to melt
Use paper towel to mostly wipe the butter off (this is the trick to avoid a dodgy 1st pancake).
Pour 1/4 cup batter into the middle of the fry pan (I use a slightly heaped ice cream scoop with lever, standard is 1/4 cup).
Swirl pan lightly to spread or use the ice cream scoop edge to spread into 11cm / 4.5" circle (ruler is a must) (joking!).
When bubbles rise to the surface (see video), flip and cook the other side until golden.
Remove and keep warm in a low oven.
Use more butter every 2 to 3 pancakes - depends how good your non stick coating is.
Serve with toppings of choice!
Classic Pancakes
1 egg
1 cup Gold Medal™ all-purpose flour or whole wheat flour
1 tablespoon sugar
3 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup milk
2 tablespoons vegetable oil or melted butter
In medium bowl, beat egg with wire whisk until fluffy
Stir in remaining ingredients just until flour is moistened (batter will be slightly lumpy); do not overmix or pancakes will be tough
For thinner pancakes, stir in additional 1 to 2 tablespoons milk.
Heat griddle or skillet over medium-high heat (375°F)
(To test griddle, sprinkle with a few drops of water
If bubbles jump around, heat is just right.) Brush with vegetable oil if necessary (or spray with cooking spray before heating).
For each pancake, pour slightly less than 1/4 cup batter onto griddle
Cook 2 to 3 minutes or until bubbly on top and dry around edges
Turn; cook other side until golden brown.
Perfect pancakes recipe
100g plain flour
2 eggs
300ml semi-skimmed milk
1 tbsp sunflower oil or vegetable, plus extra for frying
pinch salt
Put 100g plain flour and a pinch of salt into a large mixing bowl.
Make a well in the centre and crack 2 eggs into the middle.
Pour in about 50ml from the 300ml of semi-skimmed milk and 1 tbsp sunflower oil then start whisking from the centre, gradually drawing the flour into the eggs, milk and oil
Once all the flour is incorporated, beat until you have a smooth, thick paste
Add a little more milk if it is too stiff to beat.
Add a good splash of milk and whisk to loosen the thick batter
While still whisking, pour in a steady stream of the remaining milk
Continue pouring and whisking until you have a batter that is the consistency of slightly thick single cream.
Heat the pan over a moderate heat, then wipe it with oiled kitchen paper.
Ladle some batter into the pan, tilting the pan to move the mixture around for a thin and even layer
Quickly pour any excess batter into the mixing bowl, return the pan to the heat.
Leave to cook, undisturbed, for about 30 secs
If the pan is the right temperature, the pancake should turn golden underneath after about 30 secs and will be ready to turn.
Hold the pan handle, ease a palette knife under the pancake, then quickly lift and flip it over
Make sure the pancake is lying flat against the base of the pan with no folds, then cook for another 30 secs before turning out onto a warm plate.
Continue with the rest of the batter, serving them as you cook or stack onto a plate
You can freeze the pancakes for 1 month, wrapped in cling film or make them up to a day ahead.
Kids Can Cook Pancakes
1 1/2 cups flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon fine salt
2 teaspoons unsalted butter, melted
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups milk
1 large egg
Cooking spray
Gather the ingredients.
In a large mixing bowl, add all dry ingredients (flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt)
Hollow out a place in the center of the dry ingredients.
Melt butter in a microwave-safe container (Set at low power for 20 seconds
It's OK if it is not completely melted.)
Pour the butter, vanilla, milk, and egg in center of dry ingredients.
Using an electric mixer, with adult supervision, mix on low until all ingredients are well mixed
Use a spoon to scrape the remaining flour from the side of the bowl.
Spray the griddle with cooking spray
Preheat an electric griddle to 300 F
For a stovetop griddle use medium-high heat.
Fill a ladle half full with batter and slowly pour it on griddle
Repeat, leaving plenty of space between pancakes for easy flipping
When pancakes are filled with small bubbles, gently slide a spatula under the pancake and flip.
Cook for another 30 to 45 seconds and use spatula to lift off the griddle.
Serve the pancakes with your choice of whipped cream, strawberries, blueberries, bananas , chocolate sauce, maple syrup, or butter
Enjoy!
Best Pancake Recipe
2 cups (254 grams) all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup (50 grams) granulated sugar
2 cups (474 grams) buttermilk
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons (28 grams) butter, melted, plus more for frying
Maple syrup, for serving
In a large bowl combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and sugar.
In a small bowl whisk together the buttermilk, eggs, and butter
Add to the flour mixture and stir until combined with a couple streaks of flour remaining
Don’t overmix
If not using immediately, cover and refrigerate for up to a day.
Heat a skillet or griddle over medium-high heat
Add a generous pat of butter and allow to melt and become hot
Drop the batter by 1/4-cup spoonfuls into the skillet then reduce the heat to medium
Cook until the bubbles form all across the top of the pancakes then flip and continue to cook until golden brown, about 3 minutes per side
Repeat with remaining batter.
If not serving the pancakes immediately, keep warm on a baking sheet in a 200°F oven
Serve with maple syrup and extra butter, if desired.
Fluffy and Delicious Pancakes
¾ cup milk
2 tablespoons white vinegar
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon baking soda
½ teaspoon salt
1 large egg
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon, or as desired (Optional)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract (Optional)
cooking spray
Stir together milk and vinegar in a small bowl; set aside to curdle, about 5 minutes.
Combine flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl
Whisk in egg and melted butter
Pour in curdled milk and whisk until batter is smooth
Stir in cinnamon and vanilla until well combined.
Heat a large skillet over medium heat and coat with cooking spray
Drop batter, 1/4 cup per pancake, onto the hot skillet and cook until bubbles form and the edges are dry, 3 to 4 minutes
Flip and cook until browned on the other side, 2 to 3 minutes
Repeat with remaining batter.
Everyday Pancakes
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar, optional
2 eggs
1 1/2 to 2 cups milk
2 tablespoons melted and cooled butter (optional), plus unmelted butter for cooking, or use neutral oil
Heat a griddle or large skillet over medium-low heat
In a bowl, mix together dry ingredients
Beat eggs into 1 1/2 cups milk, then stir in 2 tablespoons melted cooled butter, if using it
Gently stir this mixture into dry ingredients, mixing only enough to moisten flour; don't worry about a few lumps
If batter seems thick, add a little more milk.
Place a teaspoon or 2 of butter or oil on griddle or skillet
When butter foam subsides or oil shimmers, ladle batter onto griddle or skillet, making pancakes of any size you like
Adjust heat as necessary; usually, first batch will require higher heat than subsequent batches
Flip pancakes after bubbles rise to surface and bottoms brown, after 2 to 4 minutes.
Cook until second side is lightly browned
Serve, or hold on an ovenproof plate in a 200-degree oven for up to 15 minutes.
Fluffy American pancakes recipe
135g/4¾oz plain flour
1 tsp baking powder
½ tsp salt
2 tbsp caster sugar
130ml/4½fl oz milk
1 large egg, lightly beaten
2 tbsp melted butter (allowed to cool slightly), plus extra for cooking
maple syrup
butter
Sift the flour, baking powder, salt and caster sugar into a large bowl
In a separate bowl or jug, lightly whisk together the milk and egg, then whisk in the melted butter.
Pour the milk mixture into the flour mixture and, using a fork, beat until you have a smooth batter
Any lumps will soon disappear with a little mixing
Let the batter stand for a few minutes.
Heat a non-stick frying pan over a medium heat and add a knob of butter
When it's melted, add a ladle of batter (or two if your frying pan is big enough to cook two pancakes at the same time)
It will seem very thick but this is how it should be.
Wait for about 3 minutes until the top of the pancake begins to bubble, and the edges begin to set
Flip it over and cook for another two minutes until both sides are golden brown and the pancake has risen to about 1cm/½in thick
If the pancake is too dark, reduce the heat slightly for the next round.
Repeat until all the batter is used up
You can keep the pancakes warm in a low oven, but they taste best fresh out the pan.
Serve with lashings of real maple syrup and extra butter, if you like.
Simply Perfect Pancakes
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups (283g) milk*
3 tablespoons (43g) melted butter or vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups (180g) King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
3/4 teaspoon table salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons (25g) granulated sugar or 1/4 cup (35g) malted milk powder
fresh or frozen blueberries optional
Beat the eggs and milk until light and foamy, about 3 minutes at high speed of a stand or hand mixer
Stir in the butter or vegetable oil., Whisk the dry ingredients together to evenly distribute the salt, baking powder and sweetener., Gently and quickly mix into the egg and milk mixture
Let the batter rest for at least 15 minutes, while the griddle is heating; it'll thicken slightly., Heat a heavy frying pan over medium heat, or set an electric griddle to 375°F
Lightly grease frying pan or griddle
The pan or griddle is ready if a drop of water will skitter across the surface, evaporating immediately., Drop 1/4 cupfuls of batter onto the lightly greased griddle
For blueberry pancakes, sprinkle the fresh or thawed frozen blueberries over the batter
(Mixing frozen blueberries into the batter before scooping will turn it blue and streaky.), Bake on one side until bubbles begin to form and break, about 2 minutes; then turn the pancakes and cook the other side until brown, about 1 1/2 to 2 minutes
Turn over only once
Serve immediately.
Pancakes recipe
110g/4oz plain flour, sifted
pinch of salt
2 eggs
200ml/7fl oz milk mixed with 75ml/3fl oz water
50g/2oz butter
caster sugar
lemon juice
lemon wedges
Sift the flour and salt into a large mixing bowl with a sieve held high above the bowl so the flour gets an airing.
Now make a well in the centre of the flour and break the eggs into it
Then begin whisking the eggs – any sort of whisk or even a fork will do – incorporating any bits of flour from around the edge of the bowl as you do so.
Next gradually add small quantities of the milk and water mixture, still whisking (don't worry about any lumps as they will eventually disappear as you whisk).
When all the liquid has been added, use a rubber spatula to scrape any elusive bits of flour from around the edge into the centre, then whisk once more until the batter is smooth, with the consistency of thin cream.
Now melt the 50g/2oz of butter in a pan.
Spoon two tablespoons of the butter into the batter and whisk it in, then pour the rest into a bowl and use it to lubricate the pan, using a wodge of kitchen paper to smear it round before you make each pancake.
Now get the pan really hot, then turn the heat down to medium and, to start with, do a test pancake to see if you're using the correct amount of batter
I find two tablespoons is about right for an 18cm/7in pan
It's also helpful if you spoon the batter into a ladle so it can be poured into the hot pan in one go.
As soon as the batter hits the hot pan, tip it around from side to side to get the base evenly coated with batter
It should take only half a minute or so to cook; you can lift the edge with a palette knife to see if it's tinged gold as it should be.
Flip the pancake over with a pan slice or palette knife – the other side will need a few seconds only – then simply slide it out of the pan onto a plate.
Stack the pancakes as you make them between sheets of greaseproof paper on a plate fitted over simmering water, to keep them warm while you make the rest.
To serve, sprinkle each pancake with freshly squeezed lemon juice and caster sugar, fold in half, then in half again to form triangles, or else simply roll them up
Serve sprinkled with a little more sugar and lemon juice and extra sections of lemon.
Grandma's Homemade Pancakes
1 egg
2 Tablespoons oil (I used canola oil)
1 cup milk
1 cup flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 Tablespoons sugar
2 Tablespoons baking powder
In a medium sized bowl whisk together egg, oil and milk
In a separate bowl combine flour, salt, sugar and baking powder
Add the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients and combine.
Preheat a skillet over medium heat
Spray with cooking spray and drop about 1/3 cup of the batter onto the warm skillet
Once it forms bubbles then flip to the other side and cook until golden brown.
Basic pancakes recipe
386.25 gm milk
1 egg
8.80 gm vanilla extract
300.00 gm self-raising flour
0.63 gm Bicarbonate Soda
70.95 gm caster sugar
25g butter, melted
Butter, to serve
Whisk milk, egg and vanilla together in a jug
Sift flour and bicarbonate of soda into a bowl
Stir in sugar
Make a well in centre
Add milk mixture
Whisk until just combined.
Heat a large non-stick frying pan over medium heat
Brush pan with butter
Using 1/4 cup mixture per pancake, cook 2 pancakes for 3 to 4 minutes or until bubbles appear on surface
Turn and cook for 3 minutes or until cooked through
Transfer to a plate
Cover loosely with foil to keep warm
Repeat with remaining mixture, brushing pan with butter between batches
Serve.
Pancakes
2 cups Original Bisquick™ Baking Mix
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 eggs
Grease or spray griddle or skillet
Heat over medium-high heat or electric griddle to 375°F
(Surface is ready when a few drops of water sprinkled on it dance and disappear.)
Stir all ingredients until blended
Pour by slightly less than 1/4 cupfuls onto hot griddle.
Cook until edges are dry; about 1 minute 30 seconds
Turn; cook 1 minute 30 seconds or until golden.
Pancakes I
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon baking soda
¼ teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
1 egg
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Preheat a lightly oiled griddle over medium-high heat.
Combine flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt
Make a well in the center
In a separate bowl, beat together egg, milk and oil
Pour milk mixture into flour mixture
Beat until smooth.
Pour or scoop the batter onto the hot griddle, using approximately 1/4 cup for each pancake
Brown on both sides and serve hot.
Perfectly Fluffy Pancakes
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons sugar (or to taste)
4 teaspoons baking powder
½ teaspoon baking soda
¼ teaspoon salt
1 ¾ cups milk (or as needed)
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons melted butter (or vegetable oil)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
In a medium bowl, whisk milk, eggs, melted butter, and vanilla.
In a separate bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt
Whisk to combine.
Create a well in the center of the dry ingredients and add the wet mixture
Gently stir the batter until just combined, the batter should be slightly lumpy.
Preheat a griddle or frying pan over medium heat (or to 350°F)
Lightly grease with butter or vegetable oil.
Pour about ¼ cup of batter onto the heated griddle for each pancake
Cook on one side until bubbles form and begin to pop, about 2 minutes
Flip the pancakes over and cook for an additional 1-2 minutes, or until both sides are golden brown.
Transfer the cooked pancakes to a serving plate or a warmed oven and repeat with the remaining batter.
Easy pancakes
3 large free-range eggs
125 g plain flour
250 ml milk
unsalted butter
Crack the eggs into a blender, then add the flour, milk and 1 pinch of sea salt, and blitz until smooth.
Pour into a bowl and leave to stand for 15 minutes.
Melt the butter (or a drizzle of oil if you want to be a bit healthier) in a large non-stick frying pan on a medium heat, then tilt the pan so the butter coats the surface.
Pour in 1 ladle of batter and tilt again, so that the batter spreads all over the base, then cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until it starts to come away from the sides.
Once golden underneath, flip the pancake over and cook for 1 further minute, or until cooked through.
Serve straightaway with your favourite topping.
3-Ingredient Banana Pancakes
2 medium-to-large ripe bananas
4 large eggs
1/2 cup whole wheat flour or buckwheat flour or 2/3 cup oat flour
Optional flavor/nutrition boosters: 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon, up to 2 tablespoons hemp hearts and/or ground flaxseed, up to 1/4 teaspoon salt
Butter, avocado oil or ghee, for cooking
In a medium mixing bowl, mash the banana with a large fork until it’s shiny and mostly smooth
Add the eggs and whisk until the eggs are evenly incorporated into the banana.
Add the flour and any optional boosters
Gently stir until combined
Set aside while you preheat the skillet (the batter can rest for up to 1 hour if need be).
Heat a large skillet (stainless steel, cast iron or non-stick) over medium-low heat (if using an electric griddle, heat it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit)
You’re ready to start cooking pancakes once a drop of water sizzles on contact with the hot surface
If necessary, lightly oil the cooking surface with a pat of butter or oil, carefully wiping up excess with a paper towel (nonstick surfaces likely won’t require any oil).
Scoop 1/4 cup batter onto the hot skillet, leaving a couple of inches around each pancake for expansion
Cook until small bubbles form on the surface of the pancakes, 2 to 3 minutes.
Flip the pancakes, then cook until lightly golden on both sides, 1 to 2 minutes more
Repeat the process with the remaining batter, adding more butter and dialing down the heat if the pancakes are turning dark on the outside before they are cooked through on the inside.
Serve immediately or keep warm in a 200 degree Fahrenheit oven
Leftover pancakes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, or frozen for up to 3 months
To reheat, stack leftover pancakes and wrap them in a paper towel before gently reheating in the microwave.
The Best Homemade Pancake Recipe, Perfected by Our Test Kitchen
1 c. all-purpose flour
2 tbsp. sugar
2 1/2 tsp. baking powder
1/2 tsp. salt
1 1/4 c. milk or buttermilk
3 tbsp. butter, melted
1 large egg
vegetable oil for brushing pan
In large bowl, whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt
Add milk, butter and, egg; stir until flour is moistened.
Heat 12-inch nonstick skillet or griddle over medium heat until drop of water sizzles; brush lightly with oil.
In batches, scoop batter by scant 1/4-cupfuls into skillet, spreading to 3 1/2 inches each.
Cook 2 to 3 minutes or until bubbly and edges are dry.
With wide spatula, turn; cook 2 minutes more or until golden
Transfer to platter or keep warm on a cookie sheet in 225°F oven.
Repeat with remaining batter, brushing griddle with more oil if necessary.
Best pancakes
150g plain flour
300ml semi skimmed milk
2 medium eggs
1½ tbsp olive oil
Sift the flour into a large bowl and make a well in the centre
Crack the eggs into the well and whisk, drawing in the flour from the sides of the bowl
Gradually add the milk and continue whisking, until you have a smooth batter
Leave to stand for 30 mins.
Meanwhile, line a baking tray with nonstick baking paper
Preheat the oven to gas 1/4, 110°C, 90°C fan.
Brush a 20cm frying pan with a little oil and warm on the hob, over medium heat
Add a tbsp of the batter to the pan, tipping gently until it coats the base in a thin layer
Cook for 1-2 mins, or until golden, then carefully flip the pancake over and cook the underside for 1 min more.
Transfer to the prepared baking tray and keep warm in the oven
Repeat to make 12 pancakes, adding a little more oil to the pan before each addition.
Fluffy Homemade Pancakes
1 cup all-purpose flour ($0.07)
1.5 tsp baking powder ($0.03)
1/2 tsp salt ($0.03)
¾ cup warm milk* ($0.02)
2 Tbsp melted butter ($0.20)
1 large egg ($0.21)
2 Tbsp sugar ($0.02)
1/2 tsp vanilla extract ($0.14)
4 tsp cooking oil ($0.05)
Whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the milk, egg, melted butter, sugar, and vanilla extract.
Pour the bowl of wet ingredients into the bowl of dry ingredients and stir just until combined
DO NOT overmix
The mixture should be thick, but still pourable, and a little bit lumpy
If it's not pourable, add an additional tablespoon or two of milk until it is thick, but pourable
Let the batter rest for 15 minutes.
Heat a large skillet or griddle over medium
Once hot add enough cooking oil to coat the surface (I use about ½ tsp per pancake)
Add the pancake batter to the hot griddle, ¼ cup at a time
Use the back of the measuring cup to spread the batter into a 4.5-inch diameter circle.
Cook the pancakes until bubbles form over the surface and begin to pop, the edges of the pancakes look dry, and the bottom is golden brown (about 60 seconds)
Flip the pancakes and cook on the second side until golden brown (about 30 seconds).
Repeat with the remaining batter, adding more oil to the skillet between batches or as needed, until all of the pancakes have been cooked
Keep the pancakes warm on a plate under a towel or in a warm oven until all of the pancakes have been cooked
Serve warm with your favorite toppings!
Perfect Buttermilk Pancakes
2 cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt
2 1/2 cups buttermilk
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
Vegetable, canola or coconut oil for the pan
Heat the oven to 325 degrees
Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and kosher salt together in a bowl
Using the whisk, make a well in the center
Pour the buttermilk into the well and crack eggs into buttermilk
Pour the melted butter into the mixture
Starting in the center, whisk everything together, moving towards the outside of the bowl, until all ingredients are incorporated
Do not overbeat (lumps are fine)
The batter can be refrigerated for up to one hour.
Heat a large nonstick griddle or skillet, preferably cast-iron, over low heat for about 5 minutes
Add 1 tablespoon oil to the skillet
Turn heat up to medium–low and using a measuring cup, ladle 1/3 cup batter into the skillet
If you are using a large skillet or a griddle, repeat once or twice, taking care not to crowd the cooking surface.
Flip pancakes after bubbles rise to surface and bottoms brown, about 2 to 4 minutes
Cook until the other sides are lightly browned
Remove pancakes to a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet, and keep in heated oven until all the batter is cooked and you are ready to serve.
Old-Fashioned Pancakes
1.5 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon coarse salt
2.75 teaspoons baking powder
1 large egg, lightly beaten
1.25 cups milk
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus more for serving
Vegetable oil, for the griddle
Pure maple syrup, warmed, for serving
Place a heatproof platter in the oven: Preheat oven to 200°F, and place a heat-proof platter into oven once it is warm.
Combine dry ingredients: In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder
Make a well in the center of the flour mixture.
Combine wet ingredients and add to dry: Whisk egg, milk, and 2 tablespoons of the butter in the measuring jug and add to dry ingredients
Whisk from the center, slowly incorporating flour
Rest the batter for 10 minutes.
Heat skillet and cook pancakes: Heat a large well-seasoned cast-iron skillet or favorite griddle over medium-high heat
Swirl the remaining tablespoon of butter in the skillet (or use oil to coat the griddle) and immediately pour in 1/4 cup of batter for each pancake
When bubbles rise to the surface, flip the pancakes, slightly reduce the heat, and cook until the bottoms are golden and the centers are cooked, about 1 minute.
Keep pancakes warm, then serve: As the pancakes come out of the skillet, place them on the warm platter in the oven until ready to serve
Serve a stack of 3 pancakes, topped with more butter and the maple syrup.
Easy Pancakes
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar (optional)
2 eggs
1½ to 2 cups milk
2 optional tablespoons melted and cooled unsalted butter, plus unmelted butter for cooking, or use a neutral oil like grapeseed or corn
Heat a griddle or large skillet over medium-low heat while you make the batter.
Mix together the dry ingredients
Beat the eggs into 1½ cups of the milk, then stir in the 2 tablespoons cooled melted butter if you’re using it
Gently stir this mixture into the dry ingredients, mixing only enough to moisten the flour; don’t worry about a few lumps
If the batter seems thick, add a little more milk.
Use a little butter or oil each time you add batter, unless your skillet is truly nonstick
When the butter foam subsides or the oil shimmers, ladle batter onto the griddle or skillet, making any size pancakes you like
Adjust the heat as necessary; usually, the first batch will require higher heat than subsequent batches
The idea is to brown the bottom in 2 to 4 minutes, without burning it
Flip when bubbles appear in the center of the pan-cakes and the bottoms are cooked; they won’t hold together well until they’re ready.
Cook until the second side is lightly browned, a couple more minutes, and serve or hold on an oven-proof plate in a 200°F oven for up to 15 minutes.
The BEST Homemade Pancake Recipe From Scratch
2 2/3 cups all-purpose or cake flour
2 tablespoons baking powder
1/3 cup white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 cups milk
2 eggs
6 tablespoons oil or melted butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
In a medium bowl or a large 16 cup capacity liquid measuring cup, whisk together the flour, baking powder, white sugar and salt.
In another large capacity liquid measuring cup, combine 2 1/2 cups of milk, eggs, oil and vanilla
Mix until combined
If you need to, add more milk until the batter reaches desired consistency.
Make a well in the dry ingredients, and pour the egg mixture in
Whisk together until the batter is smooth with only a few flour chunks - it doesn't have to be completely smooth.
If you have a griddle start it heating now on medium heat
I have a cast iron one that I adore, but it takes a while for it to heat up uniformly
If not, heat the largest pan that you have.
To make the pancakes I use a muffin batter scoop, which is called a #8 disher scoop
This is one of my favourite kitchen hacks, that scoop! It measures out muffins, pancakes, extra large cookies, you name it!
Take one scoop of batter and pour onto your already heated griddle, fitting on as many as you can at once
Flip your pancakes when they are slightly bubbled on the surface and golden brown underneath
The key is a medium heat that is ready and raring to go, so they instantly sizzle when you place them on the surface, but not so hot they burn.
Continue to cook all of the batter, placing cooked pancakes on a covered plate when cooked.
Serve with my Homemade Brown Sugar Sauce.
Fluffy Pancakes
2 cups white whole wheat flour or unbleached all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon aluminum-free baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon fine grain sea salt
2 1/4 cups buttermilk, yogurt, or milk
2 large organic eggs, separated
2 tablespoons butter, melted
butter, to serve (and for pan)
To make the pancakes stir the flour, baking powder, baking soda, sugar, and salt together in a medium bowl.
Whisk the egg whites to floppy peaks and set aside.
In a large bowl combine the buttermilk, egg yolks, and melted butter
Add the flour mixture and stir until everything is just combined
Don't worry if the batter is a bit lumpy, you don't want to over mix
Fold the egg whites in, folding gently until you have a uniform batter.
Heat your skillet, pan, or griddle to medium-hot and brush it with a bit of butter
Test for the right temperature
If a drop of water dropped onto the pan starts to dance, you are in the ballpark
Pour about 1/3 of a cup of batter into the skillet
Wait until the pancake bottom is deep golden in color, then flip with a spatula and cook the other side until golden and cooked through
Repeat with the remaining batter.
Serve with a golden pat of butter and any of the toppings suggested above
I really love these with Whole Blueberry Maple Syrup (included the recipe in the main post).
5-Ingredient Banana Egg Pancakes
2 medium ripe bananas ((yellow with brown spots))
2 tsp baking powder ((not necessary, but helps them rise))
1 tsp vanilla extract ( (or sub another extract or citrus zest of choice))
2 large eggs ((free-range, organic when possible — we like Vital Farms))
4-6 Tbsp coconut flour*
Oil ((such as coconut or avocado — for cooking))
Berries / Fruit
Nut butter
Seeds
Coconut yogurt
Maple syrup
We’ve found that while these pancakes cook well on the stove-top, it can be helpful to keep them warm in the oven where they will continue to bake and firm up while the remaining pancakes cook
If this sounds helpful, preheat oven to 350 degrees F (176 C) and line a baking sheet with parchment paper
However, this is not necessary, meaning you can skip this step.
To a large mixing bowl, add bananas and mash until only small bits remain
Then add baking powder and vanilla extract and use a fork or whisk to mash until thoroughly combined.
Next add eggs, break yolks with a fork or whisk, and whisk thoroughly until well combined.
Lastly, add coconut flour 1 Tbsp (9 g) at a time until a thick but scoopable batter is achieved (thicker than your average pancake batter, but not so thick that it appears dry)
If you add too much coconut flour, add a little dairy-free milk to thin.
Heat a large skillet over medium heat
Once hot, add a little cooking oil to coat the pan
Then spoon in roughly 3-Tbsp amounts of batter and reduce heat to low
These benefit from cooking slower and lower than your average pancakes
Cover with a lid to help the center cook through.
Cook for 3-4 minutes, then remove lid and flip carefully
Cook for 3-4 minutes more (lowering heat as needed if cooking too fast) or until the underside is golden brown
Transfer cooked pancakes to the preheated oven on the prepared baking sheet (or to a serving plate)
Continue cooking until all batter is used up — as recipe is written, ~6 pancakes.
To serve, top with desired toppings, such as nut butter, sliced bananas or fresh fruit, dairy-free yogurt, or maple syrup
We also love a sprinkle of seeds for more fiber and healthy fats.
Best when fresh, though leftovers keep covered in the refrigerator 3-4 days, or in the freezer up to 1 month
To reheat, microwaving is most effective
Otherwise, toast or bake in a 350 degree F (176 C) oven until hot.
