Pasta recipes
Spaghetti, penne, linguine

Basic Homemade Pasta
1 cup all-purpose flour
½ teaspoon salt
1 egg, beaten
2 tablespoons water (Optional)
Combine flour and salt in a medium bowl
Make a well in the center and add beaten egg
Mix well until a stiff dough forms, adding up to 2 tablespoons water if needed.
Knead dough on a lightly floured surface until smooth, 3 to 4 minutes.
Roll dough by hand or with a pasta machine to desired thickness, then cut into strips of desired width and length.
Creamy Tomato and Spinach Pasta
1/2 lb. penne pasta ($0.75)
1 yellow onion ($0.28)
2 cloves garlic ($0.16)
1 Tbsp olive oil ($0.16)
1 15oz. can diced tomatoes ($0.59)
1/2 tsp dried oregano ($0.05)
1/2 tsp dried basil ($0.05)
1 pinch crushed red pepper (optional) ($0.02)
1/2 tsp salt ($0.02)
freshly cracked black pepper to taste ($0.03)
2 Tbsp tomato paste ($0.08)
2 oz. cream cheese ($0.20)
1/4 cup grated Parmesan ($0.31)
4 oz. fresh spinach ($0.65)
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat
Add the pasta and continue to boil until tender (7-10 minutes)
Drain the pasta in a colander.
While the pasta is cooking, prepare the creamy tomato sauce
Dice the onion and mince the garlic
Add the onion, garlic, and olive oil to a large skillet and sauté over medium heat until the onions are soft and translucent (3-5 minutes).
Add the diced tomatoes (with juices), oregano, basil, crushed red pepper, salt, and some freshly cracked pepper to the skillet
Stir to combine
Add the tomato paste and a 1/2 cup of water to the skillet and stir until the tomato paste has mixed into the sauce.
Turn the heat down to low
Cut the cream cheese into a few pieces and then add them to the skillet with the tomato sauce
Use a whisk to stir the sauce until the cream cheese has fully melted and the sauce is creamy
Add the Parmesan to the skillet and stir until it is melted into the sauce.
Add the fresh spinach to the skillet and gently stir it into the sauce until it has wilted (2-3 minutes)
Add the pasta and stir until it is well coated in the creamy tomato sauce
Taste and adjust the salt and pepper as needed
Serve warm.
Quick pasta recipes
Quick pasta recipes

Homemade Pasta
2 cups flour (all-purpose flour, semolina, “00” flour, whole grain, or a blend)
2 eggs
1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil
1/2 teaspoon fine grain sea salt
How to Make Pasta By Hand
Start by making a mound of the flour directly on the countertop
Make a deep crater in the top and add the eggs, olive oil, and salt
Use a fork to break up the eggs without breaking through the walls of your mound
You want to try to keep the eggs contained, but don’t worry if they break through - use a spatula or bench scraper to scoop them back in
Work more and more flour into the eggs a bit at a time
Drizzle 2 tablespoons of cold water across the mixture and keep mixing until you’ve got a dough coming together
If you’re exclusively using all-purpose flour, you might not need more water
Some of the other flours are a bit thirstier, you can drizzle a bit more at time as you go if you feel like your dough is too dry
It should look like the pictures up above, you want to avoid having a wet dough
I’ve found that a spray bottle is my favorite way to add water to pasta dough without adding too much
Use your hands to bring the dough together into a ball and knead for 7-10 minutes, until the dough is silky smooth and elastic.
Form the dough into a ball and place in a plastic bag, alternately, wrap in plastic wrap
Allow to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature
Use Immediately, or refrigerate for up to a day
You might be able to get away with two days, but the dough will start to discolor.
At this point either roll the pasta out thinly with a rolling pin or use a pasta maker (see notes and photos above)
If your dough was refrigerated, bring it to room temperature before rolling out
After cutting the pasta into your desired shape you can cook the pasta immediately, dry it, refrigerate it, or freeze it at this point (see above).
When you’re ready to cook the pasta do it in a large pot of well-salted water
Depending on the thickness and shape of your pasta, this might just take a minute or so
Reserve a cup or two of the pasta water (in case you want to use it for a sauce), drain the pasta, and use immediately.
How To Make Pasta Using a Stand Mixer
Add the flour, eggs, olive oil, salt and 2 tablespoons of water to the bowl of a stand mixer
Use the dough hook to knead on medium speed for 6-7 minutes
You’ll likely need to add more water, a small splash at a time, just until the dough comes together, you want to avoid an over-wet or sticky dough
See the pictures up above
Mix until the dough looks silky, elastic, and smooth.
Form the dough into a ball and place in a plastic bag, alternately, wrap in plastic wrap
Allow to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature
Use Immediately, or refrigerate for up to a day
You might be able to get away with two days, but the dough will start to discolor.
Roll out your pasta dough (see above)
I typically choose 3 or 4 on the Atlas for fettuccine noodles, or the equivalent on the Kitchen Aid attachment
You'll need a well-floured surface if you're rolling the dough out by hand, and you'll want to keep the pasta nicely floured as well, so it doesn't stick to itself
To cut the dough into fettuccine by hand, loosely fold/roll the dough into a cylinder, and cut with a sharp knife
Alternately, you can run the dough though the fettuccine cutter on your pasta machine.
When you’re ready to cook the pasta do it in a large pot of well-salted water
Depending on the thickness and shape of your pasta, this might just take a minute or so
Reserve a cup or two of the pasta water (in case you want to use it for a sauce), drain the pasta, and use immediately.
A basic recipe for fresh egg pasta
6 large free-range eggs
600 g Tipo 00 flour
Place the flour on a board or in a bowl
Make a well in the centre and crack the eggs into it
Beat the eggs with a fork until smooth.
Using the tips of your fingers, mix the eggs with the flour, incorporating a little at a time, until everything is combined.
Knead the pieces of dough together – with a bit of work and some love and attention they’ll all bind together to give you one big, smooth lump of dough!
Once you’ve made your dough you need to knead and work it with your hands to develop the gluten in the flour, otherwise your pasta will be flabby and soft when you cook it, instead of springy and al dente
There’s no secret to kneading
You just have to bash the dough about a bit with your hands, squashing it into the table, reshaping it, pulling it, stretching it, squashing it again
It’s quite hard work, and after a few minutes it’s easy to see why the average Italian grandmother has arms like Frank Bruno! You’ll know when to stop – it’s when your pasta starts to feel smooth and silky instead of rough and floury.
Wrap the dough in clingfilm and put it in the fridge to rest for at least 30 minutes – make sure the clingfilm covers it well or it will dry out and go crusty round the edges (this will give you crusty lumps through your pasta when you roll it out, and nobody likes crusty lumps!).
How to roll your pasta: first of all, if you haven't got a pasta machine it's not the end of the world! All the mammas I met while travelling round Italy rolled pasta with their trusty rolling pins and they wouldn't even consider having a pasta machine in the house! When it comes to rolling, the main problem you'll have is getting the pasta thin enough to work with
It's quite difficult to get a big lump of dough rolled out in one piece, and you need a very long rolling pin to do the job properly
The way around this is to roll lots of small pieces of pasta rather than a few big ones
You'll be rolling your pasta into a more circular shape than the long rectangular shapes you'll get from a machine, but use your head and you'll be all right!
If using a machine to roll your pasta, make sure it's clamped firmly to a clean work surface before you start (use the longest available work surface you have)
If your surface is cluttered with bits of paper, the kettle, the bread bin, the kids' homework and stuff like that, shift all this out of the way for the time being
It won't take a minute, and starting with a clear space to work in will make things much easier, I promise.
Dust your work surface with some Tipo 00 flour, take a lump of pasta dough the size of a large orange and press it out flat with your fingertips
Set the pasta machine at its widest setting - and roll the lump of pasta dough through it
Lightly dust the pasta with flour if it sticks at all.
Click the machine down a setting and roll the pasta dough through again
Fold the pasta in half, click the pasta machine back up to the widest setting and roll the dough through again
Repeat this process five or six times
It might seem like you're getting nowhere, but in fact you're working the dough, and once you've folded it and fed it through the rollers a few times, you'll feel the difference
It'll be smooth as silk and this means you're making wicked pasta!
Now it's time to roll the dough out properly, working it through all the settings on the machine, from the widest down to around the narrowest
Lightly dust both sides of the pasta with a little flour every time you run it through.
When you've got down to the narrowest setting, to give yourself a tidy sheet of pasta, fold the pasta in half lengthways, then in half again, then in half again once more until you've got a square-ish piece of dough
Turn it 90 degrees and feed it through the machine at the widest setting
As you roll it down through the settings for the last time, you should end up with a lovely rectangular silky sheet of dough with straight sides - just like a real pro! If your dough is a little cracked at the edges, fold it in half just once, click the machine back two settings and feed it through again
That should sort things out.
Whether you're rolling by hand or by machine you'll need to know when to stop
If you're making pasta like tagliatelle, lasagne or stracchi you'll need to roll the pasta down to between the thickness of a beer mat and a playing card; if you're making a stuffed pasta like ravioli or tortellini, you'll need to roll it down slightly thinner or to the point where you can clearly see your hand or lines of newsprint through it.
Once you've rolled your pasta the way you want it, you need to shape or cut it straight away
Pasta dries much quicker than you think, so whatever recipe you're doing, don't leave it more than a minute or two before cutting or shaping it
You can lay over a damp clean tea towel which will stop it from drying.
Homemade Pasta
4 large eggs (room temperature)
2 1/2 cups flour (“00” flour, semolina flour, all-purpose flour — or a blend)
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
How To Make Pasta In A Food Processor:
Add all ingredients to the bowl of a food processor, fitted with the normal blade attachment
Pulse for about 10 seconds, or until the mixture reaches a crumbly texture (see photos above).
Remove the dough and form it into a ball with your hands, then place the dough on a lightly-floured cutting board
Knead the dough for 1-2 minutes until it is smooth and elastic
(If the dough seems too dry, add in an extra tablespoon or two of water
If the dough seems wet or sticky, just add in some extra flour, but you the dough to be fairly dry.)
Form the dough into a ball with your hands and wrap it tightly in plastic wrap
Let the dough rest at room temperature for 30 minutes
Use immediately or refrigerate for up to 1 day.
Roll out the pasta dough into your desired shape, either by hand or using a pasta maker (see notes above)
Cook the pasta in a large pot of generously-salted boiling water until it is al dente, usually between 1-5 minutes depending on the thickness of your pasta
Drain and use immediately.
How To Make Pasta In A Stand Mixer:
Add all ingredients to the bowl of a stand mixer, fitted with the dough hook
Knead the dough on low speed for 8-10 minutes until it is smooth and elastic
(If the dough seems too dry, add in an extra tablespoon or two of water
If the dough seems wet or sticky, just add in some extra flour, but you the dough to be fairly dry.)
Form the dough into a ball with your hands and wrap it tightly in plastic wrap
Let the dough rest at room temperature for 30 minutes
Use immediately or refrigerate for up to 1 day.
Roll out the pasta dough into your desired shape, either by hand or using a pasta maker (see notes above)
Cook the pasta in a large pot of generously-salted boiling water until it is al dente, usually between 1-5 minutes depending on the thickness of your pasta
Drain and use immediately.
How To Make Pasta By Hand:
Place the flour in a mound on a large cutting board
Use your fingers or a spoon to create a good-sized well in the middle of the flour mound (kind of like a volcano)
Add the eggs in the center of the well
Sprinkle the salt and drizzle the olive oil on top of the eggs.
Use a fork to begin whisking the eggs until they are combined
Then begin to gradually whisk some of the surrounding flour into the egg mixture, adding more and more until the egg mixture is nice and thick
(If some eggs accidentally spill out, no worries, just use your hands or a bench scraper to pull them back in.) Use your hands to fold in the rest of the dough until it forms a loose ball
Knead the dough for about 10 minutes or until the dough is smooth and elastic, sprinkling some extra flour on the cutting board if needed to prevent sticking or if they dough seems too wet or sticky
(That said, if the dough seems too dry, add in an extra tablespoon or two of water, but you want the dough to be fairly dry.)
Form the dough into a ball with your hands and wrap it tightly in plastic wrap
Let the dough rest at room temperature for 30 minutes
Use immediately or refrigerate for up to 1 day.
Roll out the pasta dough into your desired shape, either by hand or using a pasta maker (see notes above)
Cook the pasta in a large pot of generously-salted boiling water until it is al dente, usually between 1-5 minutes depending on the thickness of your pasta
Drain and use immediately.
Homemade Fresh Pasta
9 ounces (255g; about 2 cups) all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
2 whole large eggs (110g; about 4 ounces)
4 yolks from 4 large eggs (70g; about 2.5 ounces)
1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more for salting water
To Make the Dough: On a large, clean work surface, pour flour in a mound
Make a well in the center about 4 inches wide
Pour whole eggs, egg yolks, and salt into well and, using a fork, beat thoroughly
When combined, gradually incorporate flour into the eggs until a wet, sticky dough has formed.
Using a bench knife, scrape excess dough from fork and fingers
Begin to fold additional flour into the dough with the bench knife, turning the dough roughly 45 degrees each time, until dough feels firm and dry, and can form a craggy-looking ball, 2 to 5 minutes.
Press the heel of your hand into the ball of dough, pushing forward and down
Rotate the ball 45 degrees and repeat
Continue until dough develops a smooth, elastic texture similar to a firm ball of Play-Doh
If dough feels too wet, add flour in 1 teaspoon increments
If dough feels too dry, add water slowly using a spray bottle.
Wrap ball of dough tightly in plastic wrap and rest on countertop for 30 minutes.
To Roll the Pasta: Meanwhile, place a sheet of parchment paper on a tray or cutting board and dust lightly with flour
Unwrap rested dough and cut into quarters
Set one quarter on work surface and re-wrap remaining dough
With a rolling pin, flatten the quarter of dough into an oblong shape about 1/2 inch thick.
Set pasta maker to widest setting and pass dough 3 times through the machine at this setting.
Place dough on a lightly floured work surface
Fold both ends in so that they meet at the center of the dough, and then fold the dough in half where the end points meet, trying not to incorporate too much air into the folds
Using rolling pin, flatten dough to 1/2-inch thick
Pass through the rollers 3 additional times.
Narrow the setting by 1 notch and repeat Step 7
Repeat once more (the dough should now have passed through the third widest setting)
Continue passing the dough through the rollers, reducing the thickness by 1 setting each time until it reaches the desired thickness
It should now be very delicate and elastic to the touch, and slightly translucent.
Place rolled dough onto a work surface or baking sheet lightly dusted with flour or lined with parchment paper, folding the dough over as necessary so that it fits; sprinkle with flour or line with parchment between folds to prevent sticking.
Cover dough with plastic wrap or a kitchen towel to prevent drying, then repeat Steps 5 through 9 with remaining dough quarters
If making noodles, cut dough into 12- to 14-inch segments.
To Cut Noodles: Adjust pasta machine to noodle setting of your choice
Working one dough segment at a time, feed dough through the pasta-cutter
Alternatively, cut folded dough by hand with a chef's knife to desired noodle width.
Divide the cut noodles into individual portions, dust lightly with flour, and curl into a nest
Place on parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and gently cover with kitchen towel until ready to cook
Pasta can be frozen directly on the baking sheet, transferred to a zipper-lock freezer bag, and stored in the freezer for up to three weeks before cooking
Cook frozen pasta directly from the freezer.
To Cook: Bring a large pot of salted water to a rolling boil
Add pasta, stir gently with a wooden spoon, chopsticks, or a cooking fork, and cook, tasting at regular intervals until noodles are just set with a definite bite, about 1 1/2 to 2 minutes
Drain, toss with sauce, and serve.
Red Sauce Pasta (Red Pasta Recipe)
1½ cups pasta ((any))
2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil ((or butter, divided))
salt ( as needed)
3 to 4 garlic cloves (chopped fine)
¼ cup onions (finely chopped)
1½ cups tomatoes (fine chopped )
1 cup red bell peppers ((red capsicum or ½ to ¾ cup diced onions))
¾ to 1½ teaspoons red chili flakes ((divided, reduce for kids, adjust to taste))
½ teaspoon oregano (or any fresh herbs)
¼ teaspoon black pepper (freshly crushed to garnish (optional))
Preparation
Roast bell peppers in 1 tbsp oil for 3 mins on a high flame
Transfer to a plate to cool.
Roast tomatoes until mushy for about 3 to 5 mins
Add half of the chili flakes and cool this as well.
Blend them together to a smooth puree
Set aside.
In a large pot, bring water to a boil
Cook pasta with salt till al dente (just cooked)
Follow the cook time on the pack.
Drain to a colander and reserve ½ cup of the drained stock
Rinse the pasta and keep aside.
How to Make Red Sauce Pasta
Heat the same pan with more oil
Fry garlic and the other half of chili flakes (optional) until aromatic
This should just take you a minute.
Add onions and saute until golden
Pour the pureed tomatoes and add salt.
Mix well and cook until it reaches a thick sauce like consistency
Make sure the sauce is not runny
Taste the sauce and adjust salt as needed
If the sauce is too tangy, simply add some sugar & more chilli flakes to balance the flavors and taste.
Add the herbs and turn off the stove
Stir the pasta into the red sauce
If it is too thick, you may add a splash of the reserved stock.
Serve red sauce pasta hot with a side of grilled veggies or meat and salad
Even a cheese sandwich or a cheese toast goes well.
Homemade Pasta
6 whole Eggs
3 c. All-purpose Flour

100 best pasta recipes

