Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
Grease a 13"-by-9" glass baking dish with oil.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat
Add pasta and 2 tablespoons salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente, 7 to 9 minutes (pasta should still be slightly undercooked in the center)
Drain pasta; set aside.
Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon oil
Add sausage and cook, breaking into bite-size pieces, until browned and cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes
Transfer sausage to a medium bowl, leaving as much fat in skillet as possible.
In same skillet over medium heat, combine mushrooms and 1 tablespoon oil; season with 1/2 teaspoon salt
Cook, tossing occasionally, until browned, 5 to 6 minutes
Transfer mushrooms to bowl with sausage.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onion, garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 2 tablespoons oil, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened, 4 to 5 minutes
Stir in tomato sauce, diced tomatoes, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt
Remove 2 cups sauce and reserve
Fold bell peppers and cooked sausage, mushrooms, and reserved pasta into remaining sauce
Cook, stirring, until heated through, 1 to 2 minutes more.
Pour half of pasta mixture into prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle with 1 cup mozzarella
Top with remaining pasta mixture
Pour reserved 2 cups sauce over.
Cover pan with foil and bake until hot and bubbling around the edges, about 20 minutes
Remove foil, top with remaining 2 cups mozzarella, then pepperoni, and continue to bake until cheese is melted and pepperoni is browned, 15 to 20 minutes more.
4 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, divided, plus more for pan
12 oz. cavatappi pasta
2 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. kosher salt, divided
1 lb. Italian sausage, casings removed
8 oz. cremini mushrooms, stemmed and sliced
1 small yellow onion, chopped (about 1 1/2 c.)
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce
1 (14.5-oz.) can diced tomatoes
1 1/2 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. dried basil
1/4 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
1/2 green bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped into 1/2" pieces
3 c. shredded mozzarella, divided
1/3 c. sliced pepperoni (about 2 oz.)
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Pizza Noodle Bake
Cook the noodles according to package directions
Meanwhile, in a large skillet, cook the beef, onion and green pepper over medium heat until beef is no longer pink, breaking the meat into crumbles; drain
Add pizza sauce and mushrooms; heat through.
Drain the noodles
In a greased 13x9-in
baking dish, layer half the noodles, half the beef mixture, 1/2 cup of each cheese and half the pepperoni
Repeat the layers
Cover and bake at 350° for 15-20 minutes or until heated through.
10 ounces uncooked egg noodles
1-1/2 pounds ground beef
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
1/4 cup chopped green pepper
1 jar (14 ounces) pizza sauce
1 can (4 ounces) mushroom stems and pieces, drained
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1 package (3-1/2 ounces) sliced pepperoni
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
The Cheesecake Factory Original Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475°F
Place a large pan filled with 1/2 inch water in oven.
Make crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs and cinnamon; add butter or margarine
Press crust onto bottom and 2/3 of the way up a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment
Wrap a large piece of foil around bottom of pan
Freeze until filling is prepared.
Make filling: Use an electric mixer to mix cream cheese, sugar, sour cream and vanilla
Blend until smooth and creamy
Scrape down sides of bowl
Whisk eggs in a bowl; add to cream cheese mixture
Blend just until eggs are incorporated.
Remove crust from freezer and pour in filling
Carefully place cheesecake into preheated water bath
Bake for 12 minutes; turn oven to 350°F and bake until top of cheesecake turns golden, 50 to 60 minutes
Remove cake to a wire rack to cool.
Make topping: Combine sour cream and sugar; spread over cake
Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours.
Crust:
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup unsalted butter or margarine, melted
FILLING:
4 (8 oz.) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups sugar
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
5 large eggs
TOPPING:
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Sopapilla Cheesecake Pie
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth.
Unroll crescent roll dough, and use a rolling pin to shape each sheet into a 9x13-inch rectangle
Press one piece into the bottom of the prepared baking dish
Evenly spread cream cheese mixture on top, then cover with remaining piece of crescent dough.
Mash remaining 3/4 cup sugar, butter, and cinnamon with a fork until combined
Dot mixture over top of dough.
Bake in the preheated oven until crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown, about 30 minutes.
Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey
Cool completely in the pan for about 2 hours before cutting into 12 squares.
cooking spray
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract
2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls
½ cup butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup honey
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
No-Bake Cheesecake
Crush graham crackers: Put graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag, and crush them with a rolling pin until very fine crumbs form.
Mix graham-cracker crumbs with sugar and butter: Pour crumbs into a medium bowl; stir in sugar
Add butter and stir until well combined.
Press crumb mixture into springform pan: Press the crumb mixture into a 9-inch springform pan, spreading it 1 1/2 to 2 inches up the side; press flat
Chill crust in freezer at least 10 minutes.
Make filling: Meanwhile, make the filling: Using an electric mixer set at medium-high speed, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in the condensed milk a little at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl, as necessary
Beat in the lemon juice and vanilla.
Add filling to crust, cover, and refrigerate: Pour the filling into the crust; smooth the top with a rubber spatula
Cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until firm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours.
Remove cheesecake from pan and serve: Unclasp sides of pan, and remove cheesecake.
2 packages (20 sheets) graham crackers
11 tablespoons (1 ⅜ sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 14-ounce can (1 ¼ cups) sweetened condensed milk
0.25 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
Basque Cheesecake
Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 400°
Brush pan with unsalted butter, then line with 2 overlapping 16x12" sheets of parchment paper, making sure parchment comes at least 2" above top of pan on all sides
Because the parchment needs to be pleated and creased in some areas to fit in pan, you won’t end up with a clean, smooth outer edge to the cake; that’s okay! Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet.
Beat 2 lb
cream cheese, room temperature, and 1½ cups (300 g) sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium-low speed, scraping down sides of the bowl, until very smooth, no lumps remain, and sugar has dissolved, about 2 minutes
(You can also use a large bowl with a hand mixer on medium low-speed, but you may need to continue beating for a few extra minutes to dissolve sugar.)
Increase speed to medium and add 6 large eggs, one egg at a time, beating until each egg is incorporated, about 15 seconds, before adding the next
Scrape down sides of bowl, then reduce mixer speed to medium-low
Add 2 cups heavy cream, 1 tsp
Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp
Morton kosher salt, and 1 tsp
vanilla extract and beat until combined, about 30 seconds.
Turn off mixer and sift ⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour evenly over cream cheese mixture using a fine-mesh sieve
Beat on low speed until incorporated, about 15 seconds
Scrape down sides of the bowl (yet again) and continue to beat until batter is very smooth, homogenous, and silky, about 10 seconds.
Pour batter into prepared pan
Bake cheesecake until deeply golden brown on top and still very jiggly in the center, 60–65 minutes.
Let cool slightly (cake will collapse drastically as it cools), then unmold
Let cool completely
Carefully peel away parchment from sides of cheesecake
Slice into wedges and serve at room temperature, preferably with a glass of sherry alongside
Do Ahead: Basque cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead
Cover and chill
Let cheesecake sit at room temperature for several hours to remove chill before serving
Editor’s note: This Basque-style cheesecake was first printed online in January 2019 as “Basque Burnt Cheesecake.” Head this way for more of our favorite Easter desserts →
Unsalted butter (for pan)
2 lb. cream cheese, room temperature
1½ cups (300 g) sugar
6 large eggs
2 cups heavy cream
1 tsp. Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp. Morton kosher salt
1 tsp. vanilla extract
⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour
Sherry (for serving; optional)
A 10"-diameter springform pan
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
Lemon-and-Italian-Cheese Pizza
Place a pizza stone on floor of gas oven (remove racks) or bottom rack of electric oven
Preheat oven to at least 500 degrees for 1 hour.
Meanwhile, arrange onion and lemon slices over dough, leaving a 1-inch border
Distribute cheeses evenly; top with rosemary
Season with pepper; drizzle with oil.
Switch oven to broiler setting
Align edge of peel with edge of stone
Tilt peel, jerking it gently to move pizza
When edge of pizza touches stone, quickly pull back peel to transfer pizza to stone
(Do not move pizza.) Broil until bubbles begin to form in crust, 3 to 4 minutes
Reduce temperature to 500 degrees, and bake until crust is crisp and golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes more
(If not using broiler, bake pizza 10 to 15 minutes total.) Remove pizza from oven using peel
Slice and serve.
3 ounces Piave cheese, shaved
2 ounces fontina cheese, shaved
1 round Chris Bianco's Pizza Dough
0.25 red onion, very thinly sliced
6 very thin slices lemon, seeds removed
1 tablespoon small sprigs fresh rosemary
Freshly ground pepper
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
Chocolate Pudding Pizza
Preheat oven to 375°
Prepare cookie mix dough according to package directions
Press into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Bake until set, about 15 minutes; cool.
Beat cream cheese until smooth
Spread over crust
In another bowl, beat milk and pudding mix on medium speed for 2 minutes
Spread over cream cheese layer
Refrigerate until set, about 20 minutes
Spread with whipped topping
Sprinkle with chips
Chill for 1-2 hours.
1 package (17-1/2 ounces) peanut butter cookie mix
1 carton (12 ounces) spreadable cream cheese, softened
1-3/4 cups cold whole milk
1 package (3.9 ounces) instant chocolate pudding mix
1 carton (8 ounces) frozen whipped topping, thawed
1/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Best Classic Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, butter, granulated sugar, and salt until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until fragrant and edges start to darken in color, 12 to 15 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition to incorporate, then fold in sour cream and vanilla
Add flour and salt and beat until just combined
Pour mixture into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up the sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Cooking spray
9 graham crackers (about 1 sleeve), finely crushed
6 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c. granulated sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Classic Cheesecake
Preheat oven and make crust: Preheat oven to 375°F
Make crust: Butter a 9-by-3-inch springform pan
In a food processor, pulse graham crackers until fine crumbs form
Add remaining crust ingredients and combine: Add melted butter, sugar, and salt, and pulse to combine.
Press crust into pan: Press crumb mixture into bottom and about 1 inch up side of pan.
Bake crust: Bake until set, 12 to 15 minutes; let cool on a wire rack
Reduce oven to 325°F.
Boil water and make filling: Set a kettle of water to boil
Using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese on medium until fluffy, scraping down side of bowl.
Add sugar: Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy.
Add lemon and salt: Beat in lemon zest and juice, and salt.
Add eggs: Beat in eggs, one at a time, scraping down side of bowl after each addition.
Add sour cream: Beat in sour cream.
Prepare pan, add filling, and place in water bath: Wrap bottom half of pan in foil
Pour in filling; place pan in a roasting pan
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform.
Bake: Bake until just set in center, about 1 3/4 hours
Remove pan from water bath; let cool 20 minutes.
Cool, then refrigerate: Run a paring knife around edge; let cool completely
Cover; chill overnight before serving.
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus room-temperature butter for pan
12 graham crackers (3-by-5 inch)
0.25 cup sugar
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
2.5 pounds bar cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest, plus 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
0.5 teaspoon coarse salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350º and butter and flour two 9" cake pans
Prepare red velvet cake batter according to box instructions.
Divide batter among prepared cake pans and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes
Let cool slightly in cake pans, then invert onto a wire rack to cool completely
Using a serrated knife, level out tops of the cake so they're flat (save scraps for decorating!).
Make cheesecake layer: Line a 9" springform pan with parchment and spray with cooking spray
In a large bowl using a hand mixer or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and sugar until fluffy and combined, 3 minutes
Add eggs, one a time, until combined
Add sour cream, flour, vanilla, and salt and beat until combined.
Pour filling into prepared springform pan and bake until only slightly jiggly in the center, about 1 hour
Let cool slightly, then transfer to the freezer to cool completely and firm up before assembling.
Make cream cheese frosting: In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy, then add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat until combined.
Assemble cake: On a cake platter, place one red velvet cake
Top with cheesecake layer, pressing down firmly, then top with second red velvet cake.
Using an offset spatula, frost cake with cream cheese frosting.
Garnish with red velvet cake crumbs before serving.
Butter, for cake pans
All-purpose flour, for cake pans
1 box red velvet cake mix, plus ingredients called for on the box
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/3 c. sour cream
1 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
1/2 c. (1 stick) butter, softened
2 1/4 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Family-Favorite Cheesecake
In a small bowl, combine the cracker crumbs, sugar and cinnamon; stir in butter
Press onto the bottom and 2 in
up the sides of a greased 9-in
springform pan
Bake at 350° for 5 minutes
Cool on a wire rack
Reduce heat to 325°.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Add egg yolks; beat on low just until blended.
In a small bowl, beat egg whites until soft peaks form; fold into cream cheese mixture
Pour over crust.
Bake for 1 hour or until center is almost set
Cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes
Carefully run a knife around edge of pan to loosen; cool 1 hour longer
Refrigerate until completely cooled.
Combine the sour cream, sugar and vanilla; fold in whipped cream
Spread over cheesecake
Refrigerate overnight
Remove sides of pan.
2-1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs (about 40 squares)
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup butter, melted
FILLING:
3 packages (8 ounces each) cream cheese, softened
1-1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs, separated, room temperature
TOPPING:
1/2 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream, whipped
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Pizza dough
It’s easiest to make this in a standing mixer with a dough hook (otherwise mix it in a bowl and knead on your work surface)
Put the flour and salt in the bowl and mix the yeast into the water
It’s always a good idea to wait 5 mins before using the liquid to see if the yeast is working – little bits will start to rise to the top and you’ll know it’s active.
Turn on the motor and pour in the liquid
Keep the speed on medium-high and it should come together as a ball
If the bottom is still sticking, tip in 1-2 tbsp of flour
Knead for 5-7 mins until the dough is shiny and it springs back when you press your finger into it
(If kneading by hand, it will take you about 10 mins.) Try not to add too much flour if you can
This is a slightly sticky dough, but that keeps it light and it rises beautifully.
Use oiled hands to remove the dough from the hook and bowl
Oil another bowl and place the dough in it
Turn it around so that it’s lightly coated in the oil
Cover tightly with cling film and then a tea towel
Place in a draught-free area that’s warm and leave until the dough has doubled in size
If it’s a hot day, it should only take 2 to 3 hrs to rise, but it could take 4 hrs if it’s cold
(If you don’t plan to use the dough for a day or two, place it in the fridge straight away; take it out 3-4 hrs before using
Punch it down first and bring it together on a floured surface.)
Divide the dough into 2 pieces for big pizzas or 4 for plate-sized ones, then shape into balls (see Shaping the dough in tips, below) – dust them in flour as they will be sticky
Keep them covered with a tea towel or cling film, for 20-30 mins, while you prepare the toppings
You can also freeze them in sealed bags
Just thaw in the fridge on the day, then bring to room temperature 3 hrs before using.
To shape the dough: If you want to get air pockets and a light but crisp dough, then don’t use a rolling pin
It flattens and pops the air bubbles
(Two days in the fridge will produce the most air bubbles – take it out three to four hours before using.) If your dough is at room temperature, you can use your fingers to gently stretch the dough out
Once it’s about 16cm, place the disc over the tops of your hands (not palm side) and use them to stretch it further, up to about 25cm
You can start pressing out the other discs, then wait to do the final bit when you’re ready to cook
Once you’ve mastered stretching the dough out, you can experiment with other shapes: rectangles, rounds or squares all look authentic.
To cook the pizza: An outdoor gas barbecue is best for controlling the temperature, but charcoal will give your pizza a more authentic, smoky flavour
For gas, turn the flames down to medium-low so that the bottom of the pizza doesn't burn
When cooking on a charcoal barbecue, let the coals turn grey before you pop on the pizza.
Place the pizza on a floured baking sheet (with no edge) or a pizza peel – this is a flat pizza paddle with a long handle, which makes it easier to get the dough on and off the grill
The flour will provide the 'wheels' for it to slide onto the grill – don’t use oil as it sticks more and won’t transfer as well.
Make sure the grill is hot and the flames have died back if cooking on charcoal
Slide the dough onto the grill, close the lid (if your barbecue has one) and give it three to four minutes
The dough will puff up; it's ready when the bottom has light brown stripes
Use tongs to pull the dough off and turn it upside down.
Assemble the pizza of your choice – see 'Goes well with', right, for topping suggestions
Remember that less is more, as the dough will stay crisper and the toppings will cook better.
Place the pizza back on the grill, uncooked-side down, and shut the lid
Give it another three to four minutes, then remove when the cheese is melted and the toppings are hot.
500g '00' flour or plain flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp salt
½ tsp dried yeast (not fast-action)
300-350ml warm water
oil, for greasing
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Enchilada Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
In a large skillet over medium heat, heat oil
Add onion and pepper and cook until soft, 5 minutes
Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more
Add beans, corn, chicken, and green chilis and cook until warmed through, 5 minutes
Reserve ½ cup enchilada sauce then pour remaining sauce into skillet, stirring to combine.
Spread reserved ½ cup enchilada sauce into a 9”-x-13” then layer 6 tortillas in pan, overlapping to cover the entire pan
Pour ⅓ of mixture over tortillas then top with about ⅓ of each cheese
Top with another layer of tortillas and repeat to make 2 more layers, finishing with cheese.
2 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 (15.5-oz.) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1 (15.25-oz.) can corn, drained
3 c. cooked, shredded chicken
1 (4.5-oz.) can diced green chilis
2 (10-oz.) cans enchilada sauce
18 corn tortillas
2 c. shredded cheddar
2 c. shredded Monterey jack
Sour cream, for garnish
Freshly chopped cilantro, for garnish
Diced avocado, for garnish
Triple-Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees
Assemble a 9-inch springform pan with the raised side of the bottom facing down.
In a food processor, pulse cookies until finely ground
Add butter, and pulse to moisten
Transfer to prepared pan, and press crumbs firmly and evenly into the bottom
Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet; bake 10 minutes, and set aside.
Wipe out bowl and blade of food processor
Add cream cheese, sugar, and salt; blend until smooth
With motor running, add eggs, then sour cream, and finally chocolate; blend filling until smooth, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Wrap bottom half of springform pan in foil
Pour in filling; place in a roasting pan
Place roasting pan in oven
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform pan
Bake just until set, 1 hour
Turn oven off, and let cheesecake sit 1 hour in oven, without opening (this helps prevent cracking).
Run a thin knife around the edge of the pan (this helps prevent cracking, too); leave in pan, and cool completely on wire rack
Cover loosely and refrigerate, at least 6 hours or up to overnight.
Prepare Chocolate Ganache
Unmold cheesecake
Spread ganache in center of cheesecake; let set before serving.
1 package (9 ounces) chocolate wafer cookies
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 bars (8 ounces each) cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
0.5 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
8 ounces semisweet chocolate, melted
Rich Chocolate Ganache , for topping
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Outdoor Pizza Oven Pizza Dough
Combine flour and yeast in the bowl of a food processor
Pulse 3 to 4 times until well-combined
With machine running, add water and continue to process until mixture forms rough ball and no dry flour remains, 10 to 20 seconds
Allow to rest for 20 minutes.
Add salt to top of dough and process until a mostly smooth ball of dough forms, 20 to 30 seconds
Dough temperature should register 75°F (24°C) on an instant-read thermometer when mixing is complete
If not, continue to mix in 10 second intervals until it reaches the desired dough temperature
Transfer dough ball to a lightly oiled medium bowl and knead once or twice by hand until smooth ball is formed
Cover bowl and let dough sit for 45 minutes.
Using lightly-moistened hands, knead dough in bowl until uniform in texture, 5 to 10 seconds
Cover and let sit at room temperature until puffy and not quite doubled in volume, 60 to 120 minutes.
Transfer dough to a lightly floured countertop and divide into four pieces of about 225g (8 ounces) each for 12-inch ovens, or three pieces of about 300g (10.5 ounces) each for 16-inch ovens
Form each portion into a smooth, round ball
Coat exterior of dough ball lightly with oil and place each in a 4- to 7-inch round, lidded plastic takeout container, or on a lightly-oiled tray, spaced at least 2 inches apart, covered loosely but completely
Refrigerate dough for at least 24 hours or up to 4 days (48 to 72 hours is ideal).
On the day you plan to bake pizzas, remove dough balls from refrigerator and allow to warm up, covered, 1 to 2 hours before baking
Exact timing depends upon ambient temperature; dough should reach at least 60°F (15.5°C) before stretching and baking.
535g (18.9 ounces; about 4 cups plus 3 tablespoons) high protein all-purpose flour, such as King Arthur (Baker’s percentage: 100%)
2g (0.07 ounce; 1/2 teaspoon) instant dry yeast, such as SAF (Baker’s percentage: 0.4%)
360g (12.7 ounces; about 1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon) water, at 40°F (4°C) (Baker’s percentage: 67%)
12g (0.4 ounce; 1 tablespoon) Diamond Crystal kosher salt (Baker’s percentage: 2%)
Extra-virgin olive oil for oiling proofing containers and dough balls
Squash Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place squash and onion in a large skillet over medium heat; pour in water
Cover, and cook until squash is tender, about 5 minutes
Drain well, and place in a large bowl.
Mix cracker crumbs and cheese together in a medium bowl
Stir half of the cracker mixture into the cooked squash and onions.
Mix eggs and milk together in a small bowl, then add to squash mixture.
Stir in 1/4 cup melted butter, and season with salt and pepper
Spread into the prepared baking dish
Sprinkle with remaining cracker mixture, and dot with 2 tablespoons butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until lightly browned, about 25 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
4 cups sliced yellow squash
½ cup chopped onion
¼ cup water, or more as needed
35 buttery round crackers, crushed
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
2 large eggs, beaten
¾ cup milk
¼ cup butter, melted
1 teaspoon salt
ground black pepper to taste
2 tablespoons butter
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
Mamaw's Chicken and Rice Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease sides and bottom of a casserole dish.
Stir chicken, water, rice, cream of chicken soup, cream of celery soup, and cream of mushroom soup together in the prepared casserole dish; season with salt and pepper.
Arrange butter evenly over the top of the chicken mixture.
Bake in preheated oven until the rice is tender and the chicken is cooked through, 1 hour to 75 minutes
Cool 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
3 chicken breasts, cut into cubes
2 cups water
2 cups instant white rice
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of celery soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of mushroom soup
salt and ground black pepper to taste
½ cup butter, sliced into pats
No-Rise Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Combine flour, sugar, yeast, and salt in a large bowl
Mix in warm water and oil until dough comes together.
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Make Crust: Stir together graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and sugar; press mixture into bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Make Cheesecake Filling: Beat cream cheese and granulated sugar at medium-low speed with an electric mixer 1 minute
Add eggs and next 6 ingredients (through food coloring), mixing on low speed just until fully combined
Pour batter into prepared crust.
Bake cheesecake: Bake at 325°F for 10 minutes; reduce heat to 300°F, and bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until center is firm
Run knife along outer edge of cheesecake
Turn oven off
Let cheesecake stand in oven 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake from oven; cool in pan on a wire rack 30 minutes
Cover and chill 8 hours.
Make Cream Cheese Topping: Beat 1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese and 1/4 cup butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until smooth; gradually add powdered sugar and vanilla, beating until smooth.
Assemble cheesecake: Spread evenly over top of cheesecake
Remove sides of springform pan
Garnish, if desired.
1 1/2 cups chocolate graham cracker crumbs
1/4 cup butter, melted
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
3 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
4 large eggs, lightly beaten
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whole buttermilk
2 tsp. vanilla extract
1 tsp. distilled white vinegar
2 (1-oz.) bottles red food coloring
1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/4 cup butter, softened
2 cups powdered sugar
1 tsp. vanilla extract
Fresh mint sprigs
Brownie Caramel Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a small bowl, mix together brownie mix, 1 egg and water
Spread into the greased pan
Bake for 25 minutes.
Melt the caramels with the evaporated milk over low heat in a heavy saucepan
Stir often, and heat until mixture has a smooth consistency
Reserve 1/3 cup of this caramel mixture, and pour the remainder over the warm, baked brownie crust.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla with an electric mixer until smooth
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Pour cream cheese mixture over caramel mixture.
Bake cheesecake for 40 minutes
Chill in pan
When cake is thoroughly chilled, loosen by running a knife around the edge, and then remove the rim of the pan
Heat reserved caramel mixture, and spoon over cheesecake
Drizzle with the chocolate topping.
1 (9 ounce) package brownie mix
1 egg
1 tablespoon cold water
1 (14 ounce) package individually wrapped caramels, unwrapped
1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 eggs
1 cup chocolate fudge topping
Best Tuna Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rapid boil
Cook egg noodles at a boil until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes; drain.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
Mix noodles, condensed soup, 1 cup cheese, tuna, peas, mushrooms, and onion in a large bowl until well combined.
Transfer the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Top the mixture with crushed potato chip and remaining 1 cup of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly, about 15 to 20 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 (12 ounce) package egg noodles
2 (10.5 ounce) cans condensed cream of mushroom soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese, divided
2 (5 ounce) cans tuna, drained
1 cup frozen green peas
½ (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
¼ cup chopped onion
1 cup crushed potato chips
Easy Mexican Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-baking dish with cooking spray.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 8 to 10 minutes.
Stir in salsa, reduce heat, and simmer until liquid is absorbed, about 20 minutes
Stir in beans; cook until heated through.
Spread crushed tortilla chips over the bottom of the baking dish; spoon beef mixture on top
Spread sour cream over beef, then sprinkle olives, green onion, and tomatoes on top
Cover with Cheddar cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until hot and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
Serve and enjoy!
1 pound lean ground beef
2 cups salsa
1 (16 ounce) can chili beans, drained
3 cups tortilla chips, crushed
2 cups sour cream
1 (2 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
½ cup chopped green onion
½ cup chopped fresh tomato
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
Sopapilla Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375°
Grease a 9"-x-13" baking dish with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, sugar, eggs, sour cream, vanilla, and salt
Using a hand mixer, beat all ingredients together until smooth.
Press one sheet crescent dough into prepared baking dish, stretching to reach all edges of baking dish
If dough is perforated, pinch all perforations closed.
Spread cheesecake mixture in an even layer and top with another layer of crescent dough
Brush top with melted butter and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar.
Bake until crescent is golden and cooked through, 25 to 30 minutes.
Let cool and slice into squares.
Cooking spray
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1/2 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
2 (8-oz.) tubes refrigerated Crescent rolls
1 tbsp. melted butter
2 tbsp. cinnamon sugar
Grandma's Hamburger Casserole
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes; drain and discard grease.
Mix tomato sauce, sugar, garlic salt, and salt into the ground beef; simmer until flavors blend, about 20 minutes
Remove from the heat and cover the skillet.
While the sauce is cooking, bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook egg noodles in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain.
While the egg noodles are cooking, preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish.
Mix sour cream, cream cheese, and onion together in a bowl.
Layer 1/2 of the egg noodles into the prepared casserole dish
Top with 1/2 of the sour cream mixture, then 1/2 of the ground beef mixture
Repeat layers once more
Sprinkle Cheddar cheese over top.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
2 (15 ounce) cans tomato sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar, or to taste
1 teaspoon garlic salt, or to taste
1 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1 (8 ounce) package egg noodles
1 cup sour cream
3 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 large white onion, finely diced
½ cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese, or more to taste
Awesome Broccoli-Cheese Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Whisk condensed soup, mayonnaise, egg, and onions together in a medium mixing bowl until combined.
Place frozen broccoli into a very large mixing bowl and break it up if necessary; add soup mixture and mix well to coat
Sprinkle with cheese and mix well; spread mixture into the prepared baking dish
Season with salt, pepper, and paprika.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and the casserole is golden brown on top, 45 minutes to 1 hour.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 cup mayonnaise
1 large egg, beaten
¼ cup chopped onion
3 (10 ounce) packages frozen chopped broccoli
8 ounces shredded sharp Cheddar cheese
salt and pepper to taste
1 dash paprika
Million Dollar Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Stir cream of chicken soup, cottage cheese, sour cream, cream cheese, Creole seasoning, onion powder, and 1/2 teaspoon of the garlic powder in a medium bowl until well blended and smooth.
Fold in chicken and parsley until evenly coated.
Combine crackers, melted butter, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder in a medium bowl.
Spoon chicken mixture evenly into an 11x7-inch or 9-inch square baking dish
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella then top with cracker mixture.
Place on a foil-lined baking sheet and bake in the preheated oven until crackers are golden brown and edges are bubbly, about 35 minutes
Garnish with scallions, if desired.
1 (10.5 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
½ cup cottage cheese
½ cup sour cream
4 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
1 ½ teaspoons Creole seasoning
½ teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder, divided
5 cups shredded rotisserie chicken
1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley
30 buttery round crackers (such as Ritz), crushed
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 teaspoon sliced scallions, or to taste
Sloppy Joe Casserole
Preheat oven to 375°
In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat oil
Add beef; season with 1 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper
Cook, breaking up beef with a wooden spoon, until crumbled and no longer pink, 6 to 8 minutes
Using a slotted spoon, transfer beef to a plate
Pour off all but 1 tablespoon fat.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onions, bell peppers, and garlic, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are softened, 10 to 12 minutes; season with salt and pepper
Add ketchup and cook, stirring occasionally, until ketchup is reduced to a thick paste, 5 to 6 minutes
Add chili powder and mustard and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds
Add tomato sauce, broth, vinegar, Worcestershire, and brown sugar and cook, stirring, until combined
Add beef and a few dashes of hot sauce (if using).
Transfer to a 2-quart baking dish
Top with rolls cut sides down
Brush with butter and sprinkle with cheese.
Bake casserole until rolls are toasted and cheese is melted, 10 to 15 minutes
Sprinkle with parsley (if using).
1 tbsp. vegetable oil
1 lb. ground beef
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 medium yellow onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
1 red bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2/3 c. ketchup
1 tbsp. chili powder
1 tsp. dried mustard
1 (8-oz.) can tomato sauce
1 c. low-sodium beef or chicken broth
2 tbsp. apple cider vinegar
2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
2 tsp. dark brown sugar
Hot sauce (optional)
8 sweet Hawaiian slider rolls, halved crosswise
1 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1 c. shredded cheddar
Chopped fresh parsley, for serving (optional)
Grandma's Hash Brown Casserole
Gather all ingredients
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix hash browns, Cheddar cheese, condensed soup, sour cream, 1/2 of the melted butter, onion, salt, and pepper in a bowl
Transfer mixture to a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Sprinkle cornflakes on top, then drizzle with remaining melted butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until sauce is bubbly and top is golden brown, 1 to 1 ½ hours.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (2 pound) package frozen hash brown potatoes, thawed
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
1 cup butter, melted, divided
½ cup chopped onion
½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 cup crushed cornflakes
Espresso Martini Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a food processor, pulse Oreos until fine crumbs form
Transfer to a large bowl
Add butter and salt and mix until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until darkened and fragrant, about 12 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a small pot over medium heat, heat cream and espresso powder, stirring frequently, until espresso is dissolved
Let cool.
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating to blend after each addition
Add cooled cream mixture, Kahlúa, and salt and beat until combined
Pour filling into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Topping
In a large bowl, using handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream, confectioners’ sugar, and espresso powder until medium peaks form.
Spread whipped cream over cheesecake
Cover one half of the top of cheesecake with parchment and dust exposed half with cocoa powder
Arrange a few espresso beans on undusted side.
Cooking spray
24 Oreos
4 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
Pinch of kosher salt
1/3 c. heavy cream
1 tbsp. instant espresso
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. Kahlúa
1/2 tsp. kosher salt
3/4 c. heavy cream
2 tbsp. confectioners' sugar
1/2 tsp. instant espresso
Unsweetened cocoa powder, for dusting
Espresso beans, for topping
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
Chicken Pizza
Let dough rest, covered, at room temperature for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 450°F.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add 1 1/2 teaspoons oil, chicken, and sausage; sauté 5 minutes
Remove mixture from pan
Add 1 tablespoon oil to pan; swirl
Add onion, mushrooms and garlic; sauté 5 minutes, stirring constantly.
Punch dough down
Sprinkle a baking sheet with cornmeal
Roll dough out to a 14-inch circle on baking sheet
Brush dough with 1 tablespoon oil; sprinkle with 2 ounces cheese
Arrange chicken mixture, vegetable mixture and bell pepper over cheese, leaving a 1/4-inch border
Top with remaining cheese and crushed red pepper
Bake at 450°F for 20 minutes or until golden
Sprinkle with herbs
Cut into slices.
1 (12-ounce) portion fresh pizza dough
2.5 tablespoons olive oil, divided
2 (6-ounce) skinless, boneless chicken breast halves, cubed
1 (4-ounce) link sweet Italian sausage, casing removed
0.25 cup vertically sliced onion
4 ounces cremini mushrooms, sliced
1 tablespoon chopped fresh garlic
2 teaspoons cornmeal
4 ounces fontina cheese, shredded
1 red bell pepper, seeded and sliced
0.75 teaspoon crushed red pepper
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme
Ancient Roman Cheesecake (Savillum)
Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Pour some water into a small, oven proof bowl, and place into the oven
Arrange the bay leaves over the bottom of the springform pan to cover.
Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl, then mix in ricotta cheese, honey, orange zest, and lemon juice
Sprinkle in the flour, and stir until evenly combined
Gently pour the batter over the bay leaves, being careful not to disturb them too much.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 35 to 40 minutes
Run the tip of a paring knife around the edges of the pan, and release from the springform pan
Invert onto a serving plate, and serve warm or chilled.
15 bay leaves
3 eggs
8 ounces ricotta cheese
½ cup honey
1 teaspoon grated orange zest
1 teaspoon lemon juice
½ cup all-purpose flour
Beef stew
Heat oven to 160C/140C fan/gas 3 and put the kettle on.
Put 2 thickly sliced celery sticks, 1 chopped onion, 2 chunkily sliced carrots, 5 bay leaves and 1 whole thyme sprig in a flameproof casserole dish with 1 tbsp vegetable oil and 1 tbsp butter.
Soften for 10 mins, then stir in 2 tbsp plain flour until it doesn’t look dusty anymore, followed by 2 tbsp tomato purée, 2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce and 2 crumbled beef stock cubes.
Gradually stir in 600ml hot water, then tip in 850g stewing beef and bring to a gentle simmer.
Cover and put in the oven for 2hrs 30 mins, then uncover and cook for 30mins – 1hr more until the meat is really tender and the sauce is thickened.
Garnish with the picked leaves of the remaining thyme sprig.
2 celery sticks, thickly sliced
1 onion, chopped
2 really big carrots, halved lengthways then very chunkily sliced
5 bay leaves
2 thyme sprigs, 1 whole and 1 leaves picked
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp butter
2 tbsp plain flour
2 tbsp tomato purée
2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
2 beef stock cubes, crumbled
850g stewing beef (featherblade or brisket works nicely), cut into nice large chunks
King Ranch Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat
Saute onion and bell peppers in the hot oil until warmed through, about 2 minutes
Transfer to a large bowl.
Add both cans of condensed soup, diced tomatoes with chile peppers, chicken broth, sour cream, cumin, ancho chile powder, oregano, and chipotle chile powder; mix until sauce is well-combined.
Spread a few tablespoons of sauce in the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish
Layer with 1/2 of the chicken, 1/2 of the sauce, 1/2 of the Cheddar cheese, and 1/2 of the tortillas.
Spread the remaining chicken over the tortillas
Spread all but 1/2 cup of the remaining sauce over the chicken, then top with another 1/3 of the Cheddar, and the remaining tortillas
Spread the remaining 1/2 cup over top, and sprinkle with the remaining Cheddar.
Bake casserole in the preheated oven until bubbling, about 40 minutes.
Turn on the broiler and broil until the top is golden, 2 to 3 more minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 medium white onion, diced
1 medium red bell pepper, diced
1 medium green bell pepper, diced
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers (such as RO*TEL®)
1 cup chicken broth
2 tablespoons sour cream
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon ancho chile powder
½ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon chipotle chile powder
1 (3 pound) cooked chicken, torn into shreds or cut into chunks
1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese
10 (6 inch) corn tortillas, cut into quarters
Easy French Toast Casserole
Gather all ingredients and grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Make the French toast: Stir brown sugar and butter together in a saucepan over medium-low heat until butter is melted and sugar has dissolved, 2 to 4 minutes
Pour butter-brown sugar mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Scatter French bread pieces over top in a 1 1/2- to 2-inch layer.
Whisk milk, eggs, and vanilla together in a bowl until well combined
Pour over bread pieces, then press bread down with a spatula so the bread absorbs the liquid
Cover the dish with plastic wrap and refrigerate, 8 hours to overnight.
When ready to bake, remove French toast from the refrigerator and discard plastic wrap
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
Make topping: Mix brown sugar and cinnamon together in a small bowl
Sprinkle over the French toast.
Bake in the preheated oven until casserole is browned and bubbling, about 30 minutes, covering with aluminum foil at any point if the top is browning too much.
To serve, cut into squares and invert onto serving plates.
1 cup brown sugar
½ cup unsalted butter
1 (8 ounce) loaf crusty French bread, cut into bite-sized pieces, or more as needed
2 cups milk
6 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 tablespoon brown sugar, or to taste
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon, or to taste
Casserole recipes

Casserole recipes
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Chèvre Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper.
Stir gingersnap crumbs and melted margarine in a bowl until well combined
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan and place in the freezer.
Beat chèvre and sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition
Mix in coconut milk
Mix in coconut yogurt, flour, and vanilla just until incorporated
Pour batter into chilled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off, keep the door closed, and allow cheesecake to cool inside for at least 2 hours
Refrigerate for an additional 4 to 6 hours before serving.
7 ounces gluten-free gingersnap cookies, finely crushed
¼ cup margarine, melted
2 pounds chevre (soft goat cheese) at room temperature
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup coconut milk
8 ounces cultured coconut milk (coconut milk yogurt)
¼ cup gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 tablespoon gluten-free vanilla extract
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
Lucinda's New York-Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven and prepare pan, Preheat oven to 375°F with rack in lower third of oven
Butter bottom and sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Line sides of pan with 4-inch-high strips of parchment and butter parchment.
Combine graham crackers and sugar for crust: In a food processor, pulse graham crackers with salt and sugar to fine crumbs.
Add butter: Add butter and pulse until fully incorporated.
Bake and cool crust: Press evenly into bottom of prepared springform pan and bake until crust is golden brown and set, 15 minutes
Remove from oven and transfer to wire rack to cool 10 minutes.
Mix cheesecake filling: In a large stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese, butter, and sour cream with sugar until light and smooth.
Add eggs, yolks, zest, and vanilla: Beat in eggs one at a time until fully incorporated
Beat in remaining egg yolks, zest, and vanilla extract.
Line pan with foil and parchment: Crisscross two long pieces of foil and place a piece of parchment on top.
Wrap exterior of pan in foil: Place springform in center of foil and wrap foil tightly around bottom and sides of pan.
Place pan in water bath: transfer to oven and bake: Transfer to a roasting pan, pour filling into springform pan, and smooth the top
Pour boiling water into roasting pan to come halfway up the sides of the springform pan and carefully transfer to oven
Bake for 1 hour until top of cheesecake is golden brown, edges are set, and center jiggles slightly.
Remove from water bath and foil; chill: Lift cheesecake from water bath, remove foil and parchment from outside of springform, and chill cheesecake in refrigerator for at least 8 hours.
Slice the cheesecake and serve: To serve, remove side of springform pan and parchment strips
Cut cheesecake with a long, thin-bladed knife.
4 ounces graham crackers, broken into pieces
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
0.333 cup sugar
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2.5 pounds cream cheese (five 8-ounce packages), room temperature
4 ounces unsalted butter, room temperature
8 ounces sour cream, room temperature
1.75 cups granulated sugar
5 large eggs, plus 2 egg yolks
Zest of 1 lemon
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Marbled Pumpkin Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix together the crushed gingersnap cookies, pecans, and butter
Press into the bottom, and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake crust 10 minutes in the preheated oven
Set aside to cool.
In a medium bowl, mix together the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, and vanilla just until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time, blending well after each
Set aside 1 cup of the mixture
Blend 1/4 cup sugar, pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg into the remaining mixture.
Spread the pumpkin flavored batter into the crust, and drop the plain batter by spoonfuls onto the top
Swirl with a knife to create a marbled effect.
Bake 55 minutes in the preheated oven, or until filling is set
Run a knife around the edge of the pan
Allow to cool before removing pan rim
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed gingersnap cookies
½ cup finely chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup canned pumpkin
¾ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Yummy Sweet Potato Casserole
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Prepare sweet potatoes: Put sweet potatoes in a medium saucepan and cover with water
Cook over medium-high heat until tender, 10 to 15 minutes
Drain and transfer to a large bowl.
Mash drained sweet potatoes with a fork
Add eggs; mix until well combined
Add sugar, milk, butter, vanilla, and salt; mix until smooth
Transfer to a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Make topping: Mix brown sugar and flour together in a medium bowl
Cut in butter with a pastry cutter until mixture is coarse and looks like peas; don't overmix
Stir in pecans
Sprinkle topping over sweet potato mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until topping is lightly browned, about 30 minutes.
Enjoy!
4 cups peeled, cubed sweet potatoes
2 large eggs, beaten
½ cup white sugar
½ cup milk
4 tablespoons butter, softened
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup packed brown sugar
⅓ cup all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons butter, softened
½ cup chopped pecans
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
Grease a 13"-by-9" glass baking dish with oil.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat
Add pasta and 2 tablespoons salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente, 7 to 9 minutes (pasta should still be slightly undercooked in the center)
Drain pasta; set aside.
Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon oil
Add sausage and cook, breaking into bite-size pieces, until browned and cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes
Transfer sausage to a medium bowl, leaving as much fat in skillet as possible.
In same skillet over medium heat, combine mushrooms and 1 tablespoon oil; season with 1/2 teaspoon salt
Cook, tossing occasionally, until browned, 5 to 6 minutes
Transfer mushrooms to bowl with sausage.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onion, garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 2 tablespoons oil, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened, 4 to 5 minutes
Stir in tomato sauce, diced tomatoes, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt
Remove 2 cups sauce and reserve
Fold bell peppers and cooked sausage, mushrooms, and reserved pasta into remaining sauce
Cook, stirring, until heated through, 1 to 2 minutes more.
Pour half of pasta mixture into prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle with 1 cup mozzarella
Top with remaining pasta mixture
Pour reserved 2 cups sauce over.
Cover pan with foil and bake until hot and bubbling around the edges, about 20 minutes
Remove foil, top with remaining 2 cups mozzarella, then pepperoni, and continue to bake until cheese is melted and pepperoni is browned, 15 to 20 minutes more.
4 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, divided, plus more for pan
12 oz. cavatappi pasta
2 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. kosher salt, divided
1 lb. Italian sausage, casings removed
8 oz. cremini mushrooms, stemmed and sliced
1 small yellow onion, chopped (about 1 1/2 c.)
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce
1 (14.5-oz.) can diced tomatoes
1 1/2 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. dried basil
1/4 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
1/2 green bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped into 1/2" pieces
3 c. shredded mozzarella, divided
1/3 c. sliced pepperoni (about 2 oz.)
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Zucchini Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place zucchini into a colander and sprinkle with salt; let drain for 15 minutes, then squeeze out the moisture.
Combine zucchini, 1 cup mozzarella, and 1/2 cup Monterey Jack in a large bowl
Mix in Parmesan and eggs until well combined
Press into the prepared baking dish.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add ground beef and onion to the hot skillet; cook and stir until beef is crumbly, evenly browned, and no longer pink
Drain and discard any excess grease
Stir in tomato sauce and Italian seasoning.
Remove crust from the oven and spoon sauce mixture over top
Scatter bell pepper, mushrooms, black olives, and remaining mozzarella and Monterey Jack over sauce.
Return to the oven and bake until heated through, about 20 minutes
Let sit for 5 minutes before slicing into six pieces and serving.
4 cups shredded unpeeled zucchini
½ teaspoon salt
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese, divided
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 pound ground beef
½ cup chopped onion
1 (15 ounce) can Italian-style tomato sauce
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
1 green bell pepper, chopped
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms
½ cup sliced black olives
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Sopapilla Cheesecake Pie
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth.
Unroll crescent roll dough, and use a rolling pin to shape each sheet into a 9x13-inch rectangle
Press one piece into the bottom of the prepared baking dish
Evenly spread cream cheese mixture on top, then cover with remaining piece of crescent dough.
Mash remaining 3/4 cup sugar, butter, and cinnamon with a fork until combined
Dot mixture over top of dough.
Bake in the preheated oven until crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown, about 30 minutes.
Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey
Cool completely in the pan for about 2 hours before cutting into 12 squares.
cooking spray
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract
2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls
½ cup butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup honey
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Chocolate Cookie Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Combine cookie crumbs, brown sugar, melted butter, and cinnamon in a medium bowl; firmly press mixture evenly onto the bottom and 1 inch up the sides of a 10-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 5 minutes; set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Gradually mix in 1 1/4 cups sugar, heavy whipping cream, flour, and 1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat in eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition
Pour 1/3 of the batter into the prepared pan
Top with cookie pieces; pour in remaining batter.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove cake from the oven.
Combine sour cream, remaining 1/4 cup sugar, and remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla; spread evenly on cheesecake
Continue baking for 7 minutes
Turn oven off, leaving cheesecake in for an additional 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake and let cool completely on a wire rack.
Make the chocolate topping: Combine chocolate chips and heavy whipping cream in a saucepan; stir over low heat until chocolate melts, then stir in vanilla
Pour mixture over cheesecake while still warm.
Refrigerate before serving, at least 8 hours or overnight
Remove about 1/2 hour to 1 hour before serving and remove the ring from the springform pan.
2 cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
¼ cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar, divided
⅓ cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
16 ounces sour cream
1 ½ cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Pizza Pasta
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente; drain.
In a medium skillet over medium-high heat, cook beef with onion until beef is brown
Drain
Combine beef mixture with spaghetti sauce, pepperoni and cooked pasta and pour into a 9x13 inch baking dish
Top with mozzarella.
Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes, until cheese is melted and golden.
8 ounces rotini pasta
1 pound lean ground beef
1 small onion, diced
1 (28 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
4 ounces sliced pepperoni sausage
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
The Cheesecake Factory Original Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475°F
Place a large pan filled with 1/2 inch water in oven.
Make crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs and cinnamon; add butter or margarine
Press crust onto bottom and 2/3 of the way up a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment
Wrap a large piece of foil around bottom of pan
Freeze until filling is prepared.
Make filling: Use an electric mixer to mix cream cheese, sugar, sour cream and vanilla
Blend until smooth and creamy
Scrape down sides of bowl
Whisk eggs in a bowl; add to cream cheese mixture
Blend just until eggs are incorporated.
Remove crust from freezer and pour in filling
Carefully place cheesecake into preheated water bath
Bake for 12 minutes; turn oven to 350°F and bake until top of cheesecake turns golden, 50 to 60 minutes
Remove cake to a wire rack to cool.
Make topping: Combine sour cream and sugar; spread over cake
Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours.
Crust:
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup unsalted butter or margarine, melted
FILLING:
4 (8 oz.) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups sugar
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
5 large eggs
TOPPING:
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
No-Bake Cheesecake
Crush graham crackers: Put graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag, and crush them with a rolling pin until very fine crumbs form.
Mix graham-cracker crumbs with sugar and butter: Pour crumbs into a medium bowl; stir in sugar
Add butter and stir until well combined.
Press crumb mixture into springform pan: Press the crumb mixture into a 9-inch springform pan, spreading it 1 1/2 to 2 inches up the side; press flat
Chill crust in freezer at least 10 minutes.
Make filling: Meanwhile, make the filling: Using an electric mixer set at medium-high speed, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in the condensed milk a little at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl, as necessary
Beat in the lemon juice and vanilla.
Add filling to crust, cover, and refrigerate: Pour the filling into the crust; smooth the top with a rubber spatula
Cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until firm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours.
Remove cheesecake from pan and serve: Unclasp sides of pan, and remove cheesecake.
2 packages (20 sheets) graham crackers
11 tablespoons (1 ⅜ sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 14-ounce can (1 ¼ cups) sweetened condensed milk
0.25 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Very, Very, Very Good Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease and flour a 9 inch springform pan.
Using an electric mixer, beat the butter, cream cheese and sugar until light and fluffy
Beat in the eggs, one at a time, until blended
Stir in the heavy cream, cornstarch and vanilla.
Wrap the bottom of the springform pan with aluminum foil
Line a roasting pan with a damp kitchen towel
Place cheesecake pan on towel, inside roasting pan, and place roasting pan on oven rack
Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the cheesecake pan
Bake for 60 minutes, or until center of the cheesecake is just firm
Cool at room temperature for 1 hour
Refrigerate until set before removing from pan.
1 cup butter, room temperature
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs, room temperature
2 cups heavy cream
1 ½ tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Sour Cream Cheesecake
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Place pie crust in a pan.
Cream together cream cheese and sugar.
Add eggs one at a time, blending well.
Add sour cream and vanilla.
Pour into prepared crust in the pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the cake is set and jiggles evenly across the top when lightly shaken, 60 to 70 minutes.
Run a knife around the outside edge but leave the cake in the pan
Let cool on the counter, then place in refrigerator
Remove from pan when completely chilled, and serve.
1 (9 inch) prepared shortbread pie crust
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Homemade Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Make crust: Combine graham cracker crumbs, walnuts, and cinnamon sugar in the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of the pan and 1 to 2 inches up the sides
Place in the freezer to set up.
While crust chills, make filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric hand mixer until combined
Add heavy cream slowly while beating on low speed; mix until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating on low speed until combined
Remove crust from the freezer and pour in filling.
Bake in the preheated oven until center appears almost set when gently shaken, 35 to 45 minutes
Remove cheesecake carefully from the oven and place on a wire rack to cool, about 15 minutes.
Slide a butter knife around the outer edge to separate cheesecake from the pan
Let cool to room temperature, about 30 minutes
Unclip the side of the pan and remove the ring
Let cool for another 30 minutes; chill in the refrigerator at least 4 hours to overnight before serving.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup finely ground walnuts
1 tablespoon cinnamon sugar
½ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
3 large eggs, slightly beaten
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Keto Chicken Crust Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Mix ground chicken, mozzarella, Parmesan, garlic, Italian seasoning, salt, and pepper together in a large bowl with your hands until well combined
Fold in basil.
Place chicken mixture between two pieces of parchment paper
Gently press on the top piece of parchment and spread mixture into a circle or rectangle with a thickness of 1/4 to 1/2 inch
Remove and discard the top piece of parchment paper.
Bake in the preheated oven until starting to brown on the edges, 35 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground chicken
½ cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
¼ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon pepper
1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil
New York Italian Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Move an oven rack to the middle of the oven.
Beat the cream cheese, ricotta cheese, and sugar in a large mixing bowl with an electric mixer until well combined
Beat in the eggs, one at a time
Add the butter, flour, cornstarch, and vanilla extract; mix until well combined
Fold in the sour cream and lemon juice
Pour the mixture into an ungreased 10-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake in the oven for 2 more hours
Remove from oven and let cool completely
Run a thin spatula around the edge of the cheesecake before springing open the pan to remove
Serve at room temperature or cold; refrigerate leftovers.
1 pound cream cheese, softened
1 pound ricotta cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
¼ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
2 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sour cream
2 tablespoons lemon juice (Optional)
Garden Veggie Pizza Squares
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Roll out crescent rolls onto a large nonstick baking sheet
Stretch and flatten to form a single rectangular shape on the baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 11 to 13 minutes
Allow to cool.
Mix cream cheese with 1/2 of the ranch dressing mix in a medium bowl; add more dressing mix to taste
Spread mixture over cooled crust.
Arrange carrots, bell peppers, broccoli, and green onions on top
Chill in the refrigerator for about 1 hour
Cut into 48 bite-sized squares to serve.
1 (8 ounce) package refrigerated crescent rolls
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (1 ounce) package Ranch-style dressing mix
2 carrots, finely chopped
½ cup chopped red bell peppers
½ cup chopped green bell pepper
½ cup fresh broccoli, chopped
½ cup chopped green onions
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Best Classic Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, butter, granulated sugar, and salt until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until fragrant and edges start to darken in color, 12 to 15 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition to incorporate, then fold in sour cream and vanilla
Add flour and salt and beat until just combined
Pour mixture into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up the sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Cooking spray
9 graham crackers (about 1 sleeve), finely crushed
6 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c. granulated sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
Classic Cheesecake
Preheat oven and make crust: Preheat oven to 375°F
Make crust: Butter a 9-by-3-inch springform pan
In a food processor, pulse graham crackers until fine crumbs form
Add remaining crust ingredients and combine: Add melted butter, sugar, and salt, and pulse to combine.
Press crust into pan: Press crumb mixture into bottom and about 1 inch up side of pan.
Bake crust: Bake until set, 12 to 15 minutes; let cool on a wire rack
Reduce oven to 325°F.
Boil water and make filling: Set a kettle of water to boil
Using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese on medium until fluffy, scraping down side of bowl.
Add sugar: Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy.
Add lemon and salt: Beat in lemon zest and juice, and salt.
Add eggs: Beat in eggs, one at a time, scraping down side of bowl after each addition.
Add sour cream: Beat in sour cream.
Prepare pan, add filling, and place in water bath: Wrap bottom half of pan in foil
Pour in filling; place pan in a roasting pan
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform.
Bake: Bake until just set in center, about 1 3/4 hours
Remove pan from water bath; let cool 20 minutes.
Cool, then refrigerate: Run a paring knife around edge; let cool completely
Cover; chill overnight before serving.
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus room-temperature butter for pan
12 graham crackers (3-by-5 inch)
0.25 cup sugar
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
2.5 pounds bar cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest, plus 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
0.5 teaspoon coarse salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
Valentino's Pizza Crust
Stir water, sugar and yeast together until dissolved
Add the olive oil and the salt
Stir in the flour until well blended
Let dough rest for 10 minutes.
Pat dough into pan or on to a pizza stone using fingers dipped in olive oil
If desired sprinkle basil, thyme or other seasonings on crust
Top with your favorite pizza toppings and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in a preheated 425 degree oven.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350º and butter and flour two 9" cake pans
Prepare red velvet cake batter according to box instructions.
Divide batter among prepared cake pans and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes
Let cool slightly in cake pans, then invert onto a wire rack to cool completely
Using a serrated knife, level out tops of the cake so they're flat (save scraps for decorating!).
Make cheesecake layer: Line a 9" springform pan with parchment and spray with cooking spray
In a large bowl using a hand mixer or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and sugar until fluffy and combined, 3 minutes
Add eggs, one a time, until combined
Add sour cream, flour, vanilla, and salt and beat until combined.
Pour filling into prepared springform pan and bake until only slightly jiggly in the center, about 1 hour
Let cool slightly, then transfer to the freezer to cool completely and firm up before assembling.
Make cream cheese frosting: In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy, then add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat until combined.
Assemble cake: On a cake platter, place one red velvet cake
Top with cheesecake layer, pressing down firmly, then top with second red velvet cake.
Using an offset spatula, frost cake with cream cheese frosting.
Garnish with red velvet cake crumbs before serving.
Butter, for cake pans
All-purpose flour, for cake pans
1 box red velvet cake mix, plus ingredients called for on the box
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/3 c. sour cream
1 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
1/2 c. (1 stick) butter, softened
2 1/4 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Air Fryer Pizza
Preheat the air fryer for 5 minutes at 380 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray the air fryer basket with olive oil spray or line with a parchment liner to avoid sticking.
Remove crust from the can, and cut in half
Shape each piece of dough into a circle and crimping up the edges to form a crust
Make sure it'll fit in your air fryer basket
Carefully transfer one pizza crust to the air fryer basket and spray lightly with olive oil spray
Prick the dough with a fork and precook for 3 minutes.
Spread 3 tablespoons pizza sauce onto the crust in the air fryer basket and sprinkle with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese
Top with 7 pepperoni slices and half of the onion slices
Sprinkle with basil and red pepper flakes, if using.
Cook until crust is golden brown and crispy and the cheese has melted, 7 to 9 minutes
Keep in mind that cooking times may vary depending on the brand and size of your air fryer, so check frequently to be sure nothing overcooks or burns
Repeat procedure with the second pizza crust
Serve hot.
olive oil cooking spray
1 (13.8 ounce) package refrigerated pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)
6 tablespoons pizza sauce, divided
10 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
14 slices pepperoni, divided
½ cup onion slices, divided (Optional)
sprinkle of dried basil and red pepper flakes (optional)
Chocolate Cappuccino Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter one 9 or 10 inch springform pan.
Combine the chocolate wafer crumbs, softened butter, 2 tablespoons white sugar, and the cinnamon
Mix well and press mixture into the buttered springform pan, set aside.
In a medium sized bowl beat the softened cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add 1 cup white sugar mixing until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time
Beat at low speed until very smooth.
Melt the 8 ounces semisweet chocolate with 2 tablespoons whipping cream in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth.
Add chocolate mixture to cream cheese mixture and blend well
Stir in sour cream, salt, coffee, 1/4 cup coffee liqueur, and vanilla; beat until smooth
Pour mixture into prepared pan.
Bake in the center of oven at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 45 minutes
Center will be soft but will firm up when chilled
Do not over bake
Leave cake in oven with the heat turned off and the door ajar for 45 minutes
Remove cake from oven and chill for 12 hours
Just before serving top cake with mounds of flavored whipped cream and garnish with chocolate leaves
Yields 16 servings.
To Make Flavored Whipped Cream: Beat whipping cream until soft peaks form, then beat in confectioner's sugar and 2 tablespoons coffee liqueur.
To Make Chocolate Leaves: Melt 1 ounce semisweet chocolate in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth
Brush real non-toxic plant leaves (such as orange leaves) on one side with melted chocolate
Freeze until firm and then peel off leaves
Freeze chocolate leaves until needed.
1 cup chocolate cookie crumbs
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
8 (1 ounce) squares semisweet chocolate
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 cup sour cream
¼ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons instant coffee granules dissolved in 1/4 cup hot water
¼ cup coffee flavored liqueur
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons coffee-flavored liqueur
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Key Lime Cheesecake
Combine graham cracker crumbs with butter
Press into the bottom and partially up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan; refrigerate while you prepare the filling.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Fill a shallow pan half full of hot water and place on the lower rack to minimize cracking.
To make the filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, lime zest, and cornstarch in a large bowl with an electric mixer until smooth and fluffy
Beat in eggs one at a time, blending just until smooth
Add Key lime juice with mixer on low
Finish mixing by hand
Do not overbeat, or the cake will crack during baking
Pour batter into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 55 to 65 minutes, or until set.
Turn the oven off, and let cheesecake stand in the oven for 30 minutes with the door open at least 4 inches
Remove from oven.
Refrigerate cheesecake 8 hours to overnight, and up to 3 days.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons butter, melted
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
1 tablespoon grated lime zest
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large eggs
⅔ cup key lime juice
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Reuben Pizza
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Grease a large pizza pan.
On a lightly floured surface, roll bread dough out into a large circle about 18-inches in diameter; transfer to the prepared pizza pan
Build up the edges, and prick the center all over with a fork so it doesn't form a dome when baking.
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden.
Spread 1/2 of the salad dressing over hot crust
Sprinkle with 1/2 of the Swiss cheese
Arrange corned beef on top of cheese, then drizzle with remaining salad dressing
Top with sauerkraut and remaining Swiss cheese
Sprinkle with caraway seed.
Bake for another 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until cheese melts and toppings are heated through
Sprinkle with chopped pickle
Let stand for 5 minutes before slicing.
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen whole wheat bread dough, thawed
½ cup thousand island dressing
2 cups shredded Swiss cheese
6 ounces deli sliced corned beef, cut into strips
1 cup sauerkraut - rinsed and drained
½ teaspoon caraway seed
¼ cup chopped dill pickles (Optional)
Mushroom-Prosciutto Pizza
Preheat oven to 450°.
Heat a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat
Coat pan with cooking spray
Add mushrooms and shallots to pan; sauté 7 minutes or until mushrooms are tender
Add garlic and thyme; sauté 1 minute
Stir in vinegar; remove from heat.
Place crust on the bottom rack of oven
Bake at 450° for 4 minutes.
Place the crust on a baking sheet
Spread mushroom mixture evenly over crust; sprinkle evenly with prosciutto and fontina cheese
Bake at 450° for 6 minutes or until cheese melts.
Tips: For a crisp crust, bake the pizza crust on the lowest rack for a few minutes before adding the toppings
Presliced button mushrooms can substitute for the creminis.
Cooking spray
8 ounces sliced cremini mushrooms
¼ cup finely chopped shallots
1 garlic clove, minced
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme
2 teaspoons sherry vinegar
1 (10-ounce) Italian cheese-flavored thin pizza crust (such as Boboli)
2 ounces prosciutto, cut into thin strips
⅓ cup (about 1 1/2 ounces) shredded fontina cheese
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Mary's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, 1/4 cup sugar and margarine until well blended 
Press mixture into a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese with sugar until smooth
In a separate bowl, combine cream, flour, eggs, lemon juice and vanilla
Beat together, and then pour into cream cheese mixture
Mix well
Pour filling into prepared graham cracker crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 65 minutes
Turn off oven, and cool cake in oven for 30 minutes
Prop door open and cool in oven for an additional 30 minutes
Remove from oven and cool completely
Refrigerate for as long as possible before serving.
2 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup white sugar
½ cup margarine, softened
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
1 pint heavy cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
7 eggs
2 teaspoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Naan Bread Margherita Pizza with Prosciutto
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil.
Place naan breads on the prepared baking sheet; brush each with olive oil
Sprinkle green onion and garlic over each naan
Arrange 4 slices mozzarella cheese onto each naan; top with tomato slices
Season tomatoes with salt and pepper
Top tomato layers with prosciutto, basil, and Parmesan cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until pizza is crispy on the edges and cheese is melted, about 8 minutes
Turn on the oven's broiler and broil until cheese is lightly browned and bubbling, about 2 minutes.
2 naan breads
2 teaspoons olive oil, or as needed
1 green onion, sliced
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
8 slices mozzarella cheese
1 large roma tomato, thinly sliced
salt and ground black pepper to taste
1 slice prosciutto, sliced
6 leaves fresh basil, roughly chopped
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Enchilada Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
In a large skillet over medium heat, heat oil
Add onion and pepper and cook until soft, 5 minutes
Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more
Add beans, corn, chicken, and green chilis and cook until warmed through, 5 minutes
Reserve ½ cup enchilada sauce then pour remaining sauce into skillet, stirring to combine.
Spread reserved ½ cup enchilada sauce into a 9”-x-13” then layer 6 tortillas in pan, overlapping to cover the entire pan
Pour ⅓ of mixture over tortillas then top with about ⅓ of each cheese
Top with another layer of tortillas and repeat to make 2 more layers, finishing with cheese.
2 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 (15.5-oz.) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1 (15.25-oz.) can corn, drained
3 c. cooked, shredded chicken
1 (4.5-oz.) can diced green chilis
2 (10-oz.) cans enchilada sauce
18 corn tortillas
2 c. shredded cheddar
2 c. shredded Monterey jack
Sour cream, for garnish
Freshly chopped cilantro, for garnish
Diced avocado, for garnish
Warm Fudge-Filled Cheesecake
Beat butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy; add 1/3 cup sugar, beating well
Gradually add flour, beating at low speed until blended
Stir in 1 teaspoon vanilla and pistachios
Press into bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake at 350° for 12 to 15 minutes or until golden
Cool on a wire rack.
Beat cream cheese at medium speed with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1 1/2 cups sugar, beating well
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating just until yellow disappears
Stir in remaining 2 teaspoons vanilla
(Do not overmix.)
Pour half of batter into crust; sprinkle with chocolate morsels to within 3/4 inch of edge
Pour in remaining batter, starting at outer edge and working toward center
Place cheesecake on a baking sheet.
Bake at 350° for 1 hour or until set
Cool on a wire rack 1 hour
Serve slightly warm with sweetened whipped cream, if desired
Garnish, if desired.
½ cup butter or margarine, softened
⅓ cup sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla, divided
⅔ cup chopped pistachios
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 (12-ounce) package semisweet chocolate mini-morsels
Sweetened whipped cream (optional)
Garnish: chocolate shavings
Passover Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
In a small bowl, stir together the crushed macaroons and butter
Press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven; remove and cool.
In a medium bowl, stir cream cheese and sugar together until well blended
Stir in matzo meal, milk and vanilla until smooth
Mix in the eggs one at a time.
Combine the chocolate chips and butter in a small microwave-safe dish
Heat at 30 second intervals until melted, stirring at each interval
Stir into the cream cheese batter
Pour the batter over the cooled crust and smooth the top.
Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes, or until the center appears solid when jiggled slightly.
2 ½ cups crushed chocolate macaroon cookies
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
4 teaspoons matzo meal
¼ cup milk
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 teaspoon butter
White Chocolate Blueberry Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C)
Make the crust: In a food processor, blend together the graham cracker crumbs, almonds and sugar until the almonds are ground fine
Pour in the melted butter and caramel while processing, until mixture is combined
Press the mixture onto the bottom, and half way up the side of a 10 inch springform pan.
Make the filling: In a metal bowl over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the white chocolate, stirring until smooth
Remove from heat and set aside
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese and 3/4 cup sugar until smooth
Beat in the eggs and the egg yolks, one at a time
Beat in the flour and the vanilla and blend in the melted white chocolate slowly, beating until the filling is well combined
Pour filling into crust.
Bake in the middle of preheated oven for 1 hour
Then turn off the heat, and crack the oven door an inch, letting the cheesecake cool in the oven to room temperature
Cover loosely and refrigerate overnight before removing from pan.
Make the topping: In a saucepan, combine 1/2 cup sugar and cornstarch
Stir in water and blueberries
Bring to a boil, then simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally
Press through a fine sieve
Stir in lemon juice, allow to cool, and store in a glass jar.
2 cups crushed graham crackers
1 cup slivered almonds
½ cup white sugar
¼ cup clarified butter, melted
2 tablespoons caramel topping
1 pound white chocolate, chopped
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
2 egg yolks
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
¼ cup water
1 pint fresh blueberries
2 teaspoons lemon juice
Pizza dough
It’s easiest to make this in a standing mixer with a dough hook (otherwise mix it in a bowl and knead on your work surface)
Put the flour and salt in the bowl and mix the yeast into the water
It’s always a good idea to wait 5 mins before using the liquid to see if the yeast is working – little bits will start to rise to the top and you’ll know it’s active.
Turn on the motor and pour in the liquid
Keep the speed on medium-high and it should come together as a ball
If the bottom is still sticking, tip in 1-2 tbsp of flour
Knead for 5-7 mins until the dough is shiny and it springs back when you press your finger into it
(If kneading by hand, it will take you about 10 mins.) Try not to add too much flour if you can
This is a slightly sticky dough, but that keeps it light and it rises beautifully.
Use oiled hands to remove the dough from the hook and bowl
Oil another bowl and place the dough in it
Turn it around so that it’s lightly coated in the oil
Cover tightly with cling film and then a tea towel
Place in a draught-free area that’s warm and leave until the dough has doubled in size
If it’s a hot day, it should only take 2 to 3 hrs to rise, but it could take 4 hrs if it’s cold
(If you don’t plan to use the dough for a day or two, place it in the fridge straight away; take it out 3-4 hrs before using
Punch it down first and bring it together on a floured surface.)
Divide the dough into 2 pieces for big pizzas or 4 for plate-sized ones, then shape into balls (see Shaping the dough in tips, below) – dust them in flour as they will be sticky
Keep them covered with a tea towel or cling film, for 20-30 mins, while you prepare the toppings
You can also freeze them in sealed bags
Just thaw in the fridge on the day, then bring to room temperature 3 hrs before using.
To shape the dough: If you want to get air pockets and a light but crisp dough, then don’t use a rolling pin
It flattens and pops the air bubbles
(Two days in the fridge will produce the most air bubbles – take it out three to four hours before using.) If your dough is at room temperature, you can use your fingers to gently stretch the dough out
Once it’s about 16cm, place the disc over the tops of your hands (not palm side) and use them to stretch it further, up to about 25cm
You can start pressing out the other discs, then wait to do the final bit when you’re ready to cook
Once you’ve mastered stretching the dough out, you can experiment with other shapes: rectangles, rounds or squares all look authentic.
To cook the pizza: An outdoor gas barbecue is best for controlling the temperature, but charcoal will give your pizza a more authentic, smoky flavour
For gas, turn the flames down to medium-low so that the bottom of the pizza doesn't burn
When cooking on a charcoal barbecue, let the coals turn grey before you pop on the pizza.
Place the pizza on a floured baking sheet (with no edge) or a pizza peel – this is a flat pizza paddle with a long handle, which makes it easier to get the dough on and off the grill
The flour will provide the 'wheels' for it to slide onto the grill – don’t use oil as it sticks more and won’t transfer as well.
Make sure the grill is hot and the flames have died back if cooking on charcoal
Slide the dough onto the grill, close the lid (if your barbecue has one) and give it three to four minutes
The dough will puff up; it's ready when the bottom has light brown stripes
Use tongs to pull the dough off and turn it upside down.
Assemble the pizza of your choice – see 'Goes well with', right, for topping suggestions
Remember that less is more, as the dough will stay crisper and the toppings will cook better.
Place the pizza back on the grill, uncooked-side down, and shut the lid
Give it another three to four minutes, then remove when the cheese is melted and the toppings are hot.
500g '00' flour or plain flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp salt
½ tsp dried yeast (not fast-action)
300-350ml warm water
oil, for greasing
Ladyfinger Cheesecake
Place ladyfingers on the bottom and around the edge of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a medium bowl, whip cream until peaks form.
In a large bowl, beat together the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Gently fold in the whipped cream.
Spoon 1/2 of cream cheese mixture into springform pan; cover with a layer of lady fingers and add remaining cream cheese mixture.
Layer remaining ladyfingers and top with fruit pie filling
Chill before serving.
3 (3 ounce) packages ladyfingers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup white sugar
1 pint heavy whipping cream
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
Special Italian Easter Pizza
Cook and stir Italian sausage in a skillet over medium heat until browned and crumbly, 5 to 8 minutes
Drain excess grease; set sausage aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Oil the bottom and sides of a 10-inch springform pan with olive oil.
Cut 1/3 of the dough off the loaf and set aside under a cloth
Form the remaining dough into a ball; roll ball on a floured work surface into a 14-inch circle
Press circle into the bottom and up the sides of the prepared pan; excess dough will hang over the edges.
Whisk 8 eggs in a 2-cup liquid measure.
Working with only 1/2 of the ingredients at a time, make layers in the pan in the following order: sausage, mozzarella, ham, provolone, salami, pepperoni, ricotta, and Parmesan
Pour in 1/2 of the beaten eggs
Repeat layers once more, starting with sausage and ending with Parmesan
Pour remaining beaten eggs over top.
Roll out remaining bread dough into a 12-inch circle
Place over the pie to form a top crust
Roll and pinch any overhanging bottom crust over top crust to seal in the filling.
Beat remaining egg and water in a small bowl
Brush egg wash over top crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crust is golden brown and the filling is set, 50 to 60 minutes
A toothpick inserted into the middle of the crust should come out without any raw egg.
Remove from the oven and cool in the pan for at least 25 minutes, then release the spring and remove from the pan
Transfer to a serving platter and cut into wedges for serving.
½ pound bulk Italian sausage
1 tablespoon olive oil, or as needed
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen bread dough, thawed
9 large eggs, divided
½ pound sliced mozzarella cheese
½ pound sliced cooked ham
½ pound sliced provolone cheese
½ pound sliced salami
½ pound sliced pepperoni
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon water
Basque Cheesecake
Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 400°
Brush pan with unsalted butter, then line with 2 overlapping 16x12" sheets of parchment paper, making sure parchment comes at least 2" above top of pan on all sides
Because the parchment needs to be pleated and creased in some areas to fit in pan, you won’t end up with a clean, smooth outer edge to the cake; that’s okay! Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet.
Beat 2 lb
cream cheese, room temperature, and 1½ cups (300 g) sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium-low speed, scraping down sides of the bowl, until very smooth, no lumps remain, and sugar has dissolved, about 2 minutes
(You can also use a large bowl with a hand mixer on medium low-speed, but you may need to continue beating for a few extra minutes to dissolve sugar.)
Increase speed to medium and add 6 large eggs, one egg at a time, beating until each egg is incorporated, about 15 seconds, before adding the next
Scrape down sides of bowl, then reduce mixer speed to medium-low
Add 2 cups heavy cream, 1 tsp
Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp
Morton kosher salt, and 1 tsp
vanilla extract and beat until combined, about 30 seconds.
Turn off mixer and sift ⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour evenly over cream cheese mixture using a fine-mesh sieve
Beat on low speed until incorporated, about 15 seconds
Scrape down sides of the bowl (yet again) and continue to beat until batter is very smooth, homogenous, and silky, about 10 seconds.
Pour batter into prepared pan
Bake cheesecake until deeply golden brown on top and still very jiggly in the center, 60–65 minutes.
Let cool slightly (cake will collapse drastically as it cools), then unmold
Let cool completely
Carefully peel away parchment from sides of cheesecake
Slice into wedges and serve at room temperature, preferably with a glass of sherry alongside
Do Ahead: Basque cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead
Cover and chill
Let cheesecake sit at room temperature for several hours to remove chill before serving
Editor’s note: This Basque-style cheesecake was first printed online in January 2019 as “Basque Burnt Cheesecake.” Head this way for more of our favorite Easter desserts →
Unsalted butter (for pan)
2 lb. cream cheese, room temperature
1½ cups (300 g) sugar
6 large eggs
2 cups heavy cream
1 tsp. Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp. Morton kosher salt
1 tsp. vanilla extract
⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour
Sherry (for serving; optional)
A 10"-diameter springform pan
Squash Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place squash and onion in a large skillet over medium heat; pour in water
Cover, and cook until squash is tender, about 5 minutes
Drain well, and place in a large bowl.
Mix cracker crumbs and cheese together in a medium bowl
Stir half of the cracker mixture into the cooked squash and onions.
Mix eggs and milk together in a small bowl, then add to squash mixture.
Stir in 1/4 cup melted butter, and season with salt and pepper
Spread into the prepared baking dish
Sprinkle with remaining cracker mixture, and dot with 2 tablespoons butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until lightly browned, about 25 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
4 cups sliced yellow squash
½ cup chopped onion
¼ cup water, or more as needed
35 buttery round crackers, crushed
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
2 large eggs, beaten
¾ cup milk
¼ cup butter, melted
1 teaspoon salt
ground black pepper to taste
2 tablespoons butter
Eric's Best New York Style Cheesecake
Bring all ingredients to room temperature
Place oven shelf in the center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Wrap the outside of a 9 inch springform pan with foil
Generously butter the inside of the pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth
Mix in sugar and cornstarch
Blend in sour cream and whipping cream
Add amaretto and vanilla
Stir in eggs and egg yolk one at a time, mixing thoroughly between each addition
Pour batter into prepared pan.
Pour mixture into prepared springform pan
Place pan in another pan at least one inch wider than cake pan and add warm water to the outer pan to create a water bath for the cake (this prevents cracks in your cheesecake)
Bake on the center rack of oven for 70 minutes.
Turn oven off and allow to cool with oven door open for one hour
Then remove cake from water bath and chill at least 3 hours before removing from springform pan.
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 ½ cups sour cream
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 ¾ cups white sugar
⅛ cup cornstarch
1 fluid ounce amaretto liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 eggs
1 egg yolks
Zucchini Pizza Bites
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread zucchini slices in 1 layer on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until zucchini is tender, about 15 minutes.
Spoon pizza sauce over each zucchini slice and top with pepperoni and mozzarella cheese
Sprinkle herbs over each.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 5 minutes more.
2 zucchini, sliced into 1/4-inch thick rounds
1/4 cup pizza sauce, or more to taste
20 slices pepperoni, or more to taste
1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or as needed
Italian seasoning, dried parsley, or oregano for sprinkling (Optional)
Cheesecake Fruit Salad
Combine milk and pudding mix in the bowl of a stand mixer and mix until incorporated
Slowly blend in cream cheese, increasing the speed to high until mixture is smooth
Mixture should be somewhat thick.
Fold in frozen whipped topping, using a spatula, until well incorporated and mixture is light and creamy
Add grapes, strawberries, bananas, blackberries, raspberries, and blueberries
Fold in gently, until fruit is well coated and evenly mixed in
Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.
1 ½ cups milk
1 (3.4 ounce) package instant cheesecake pudding mix
2 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping, thawed
3 cups grapes
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and sliced
2 large bananas, sliced
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blackberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh raspberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blueberries
Mamaw's Chicken and Rice Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease sides and bottom of a casserole dish.
Stir chicken, water, rice, cream of chicken soup, cream of celery soup, and cream of mushroom soup together in the prepared casserole dish; season with salt and pepper.
Arrange butter evenly over the top of the chicken mixture.
Bake in preheated oven until the rice is tender and the chicken is cooked through, 1 hour to 75 minutes
Cool 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
3 chicken breasts, cut into cubes
2 cups water
2 cups instant white rice
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of celery soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of mushroom soup
salt and ground black pepper to taste
½ cup butter, sliced into pats
Perfect Every Time Pizza or Calzone Dough
Mix together 1/2 cup lukewarm water and yeast in a small bowl
Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine 1/2 cup water, olive oil, honey, and salt in a large mixing bowl
Add 1 cup flour and mix well
Mix yeast mixture into flour mixture
Add remaining flour, 1 cup at a time, until dough is well combined.
Knead dough on a floured work surface until dough is soft, smooth, and elastic, about 8 minutes
Roll dough into 4 calzone shapes or 1 large pizza.
½ cup lukewarm water
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
½ cup water
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons honey
½ teaspoon salt
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
No-Rise Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Combine flour, sugar, yeast, and salt in a large bowl
Mix in warm water and oil until dough comes together.
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Homemade Pizza Burgers
Combine beef, tomato paste, salt, sugar, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, pepper, and oregano in a large bowl
Mix thoroughly
Cover and refrigerate to let flavors marry, about 4 hours.
Form beef mixture into 8 thin patties
Place 1 slice of mozzarella cheese on each of 4 patties; leave at least a 1/2-inch border, breaking up the cheese as needed
Place remaining patties on top and pinch edges to seal in the cheese.
Heat a skillet over medium-low heat
Fry burgers until browned and centers reach 165 degrees F (74 degrees C), 6 to 7 minutes per side
Serve on buns.
1 pound ground beef
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon white sugar
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
4 slices mozzarella cheese
4 fresh hamburger buns
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
Grease a 13"-by-9" glass baking dish with oil.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat
Add pasta and 2 tablespoons salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente, 7 to 9 minutes (pasta should still be slightly undercooked in the center)
Drain pasta; set aside.
Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon oil
Add sausage and cook, breaking into bite-size pieces, until browned and cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes
Transfer sausage to a medium bowl, leaving as much fat in skillet as possible.
In same skillet over medium heat, combine mushrooms and 1 tablespoon oil; season with 1/2 teaspoon salt
Cook, tossing occasionally, until browned, 5 to 6 minutes
Transfer mushrooms to bowl with sausage.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onion, garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 2 tablespoons oil, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened, 4 to 5 minutes
Stir in tomato sauce, diced tomatoes, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt
Remove 2 cups sauce and reserve
Fold bell peppers and cooked sausage, mushrooms, and reserved pasta into remaining sauce
Cook, stirring, until heated through, 1 to 2 minutes more.
Pour half of pasta mixture into prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle with 1 cup mozzarella
Top with remaining pasta mixture
Pour reserved 2 cups sauce over.
Cover pan with foil and bake until hot and bubbling around the edges, about 20 minutes
Remove foil, top with remaining 2 cups mozzarella, then pepperoni, and continue to bake until cheese is melted and pepperoni is browned, 15 to 20 minutes more.
4 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, divided, plus more for pan
12 oz. cavatappi pasta
2 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. kosher salt, divided
1 lb. Italian sausage, casings removed
8 oz. cremini mushrooms, stemmed and sliced
1 small yellow onion, chopped (about 1 1/2 c.)
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce
1 (14.5-oz.) can diced tomatoes
1 1/2 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. dried basil
1/4 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
1/2 green bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped into 1/2" pieces
3 c. shredded mozzarella, divided
1/3 c. sliced pepperoni (about 2 oz.)
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pizza Noodle Bake
Cook the noodles according to package directions
Meanwhile, in a large skillet, cook the beef, onion and green pepper over medium heat until beef is no longer pink, breaking the meat into crumbles; drain
Add pizza sauce and mushrooms; heat through.
Drain the noodles
In a greased 13x9-in
baking dish, layer half the noodles, half the beef mixture, 1/2 cup of each cheese and half the pepperoni
Repeat the layers
Cover and bake at 350° for 15-20 minutes or until heated through.
10 ounces uncooked egg noodles
1-1/2 pounds ground beef
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
1/4 cup chopped green pepper
1 jar (14 ounces) pizza sauce
1 can (4 ounces) mushroom stems and pieces, drained
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1 package (3-1/2 ounces) sliced pepperoni
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Sopapilla Cheesecake Pie
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth.
Unroll crescent roll dough, and use a rolling pin to shape each sheet into a 9x13-inch rectangle
Press one piece into the bottom of the prepared baking dish
Evenly spread cream cheese mixture on top, then cover with remaining piece of crescent dough.
Mash remaining 3/4 cup sugar, butter, and cinnamon with a fork until combined
Dot mixture over top of dough.
Bake in the preheated oven until crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown, about 30 minutes.
Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey
Cool completely in the pan for about 2 hours before cutting into 12 squares.
cooking spray
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract
2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls
½ cup butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup honey
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
The Cheesecake Factory Original Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475°F
Place a large pan filled with 1/2 inch water in oven.
Make crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs and cinnamon; add butter or margarine
Press crust onto bottom and 2/3 of the way up a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment
Wrap a large piece of foil around bottom of pan
Freeze until filling is prepared.
Make filling: Use an electric mixer to mix cream cheese, sugar, sour cream and vanilla
Blend until smooth and creamy
Scrape down sides of bowl
Whisk eggs in a bowl; add to cream cheese mixture
Blend just until eggs are incorporated.
Remove crust from freezer and pour in filling
Carefully place cheesecake into preheated water bath
Bake for 12 minutes; turn oven to 350°F and bake until top of cheesecake turns golden, 50 to 60 minutes
Remove cake to a wire rack to cool.
Make topping: Combine sour cream and sugar; spread over cake
Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours.
Crust:
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup unsalted butter or margarine, melted
FILLING:
4 (8 oz.) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups sugar
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
5 large eggs
TOPPING:
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
No-Bake Cheesecake
Crush graham crackers: Put graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag, and crush them with a rolling pin until very fine crumbs form.
Mix graham-cracker crumbs with sugar and butter: Pour crumbs into a medium bowl; stir in sugar
Add butter and stir until well combined.
Press crumb mixture into springform pan: Press the crumb mixture into a 9-inch springform pan, spreading it 1 1/2 to 2 inches up the side; press flat
Chill crust in freezer at least 10 minutes.
Make filling: Meanwhile, make the filling: Using an electric mixer set at medium-high speed, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in the condensed milk a little at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl, as necessary
Beat in the lemon juice and vanilla.
Add filling to crust, cover, and refrigerate: Pour the filling into the crust; smooth the top with a rubber spatula
Cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until firm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours.
Remove cheesecake from pan and serve: Unclasp sides of pan, and remove cheesecake.
2 packages (20 sheets) graham crackers
11 tablespoons (1 ⅜ sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 14-ounce can (1 ¼ cups) sweetened condensed milk
0.25 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Basque Cheesecake
Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 400°
Brush pan with unsalted butter, then line with 2 overlapping 16x12" sheets of parchment paper, making sure parchment comes at least 2" above top of pan on all sides
Because the parchment needs to be pleated and creased in some areas to fit in pan, you won’t end up with a clean, smooth outer edge to the cake; that’s okay! Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet.
Beat 2 lb
cream cheese, room temperature, and 1½ cups (300 g) sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium-low speed, scraping down sides of the bowl, until very smooth, no lumps remain, and sugar has dissolved, about 2 minutes
(You can also use a large bowl with a hand mixer on medium low-speed, but you may need to continue beating for a few extra minutes to dissolve sugar.)
Increase speed to medium and add 6 large eggs, one egg at a time, beating until each egg is incorporated, about 15 seconds, before adding the next
Scrape down sides of bowl, then reduce mixer speed to medium-low
Add 2 cups heavy cream, 1 tsp
Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp
Morton kosher salt, and 1 tsp
vanilla extract and beat until combined, about 30 seconds.
Turn off mixer and sift ⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour evenly over cream cheese mixture using a fine-mesh sieve
Beat on low speed until incorporated, about 15 seconds
Scrape down sides of the bowl (yet again) and continue to beat until batter is very smooth, homogenous, and silky, about 10 seconds.
Pour batter into prepared pan
Bake cheesecake until deeply golden brown on top and still very jiggly in the center, 60–65 minutes.
Let cool slightly (cake will collapse drastically as it cools), then unmold
Let cool completely
Carefully peel away parchment from sides of cheesecake
Slice into wedges and serve at room temperature, preferably with a glass of sherry alongside
Do Ahead: Basque cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead
Cover and chill
Let cheesecake sit at room temperature for several hours to remove chill before serving
Editor’s note: This Basque-style cheesecake was first printed online in January 2019 as “Basque Burnt Cheesecake.” Head this way for more of our favorite Easter desserts →
Unsalted butter (for pan)
2 lb. cream cheese, room temperature
1½ cups (300 g) sugar
6 large eggs
2 cups heavy cream
1 tsp. Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp. Morton kosher salt
1 tsp. vanilla extract
⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour
Sherry (for serving; optional)
A 10"-diameter springform pan
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Lemon-and-Italian-Cheese Pizza
Place a pizza stone on floor of gas oven (remove racks) or bottom rack of electric oven
Preheat oven to at least 500 degrees for 1 hour.
Meanwhile, arrange onion and lemon slices over dough, leaving a 1-inch border
Distribute cheeses evenly; top with rosemary
Season with pepper; drizzle with oil.
Switch oven to broiler setting
Align edge of peel with edge of stone
Tilt peel, jerking it gently to move pizza
When edge of pizza touches stone, quickly pull back peel to transfer pizza to stone
(Do not move pizza.) Broil until bubbles begin to form in crust, 3 to 4 minutes
Reduce temperature to 500 degrees, and bake until crust is crisp and golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes more
(If not using broiler, bake pizza 10 to 15 minutes total.) Remove pizza from oven using peel
Slice and serve.
3 ounces Piave cheese, shaved
2 ounces fontina cheese, shaved
1 round Chris Bianco's Pizza Dough
0.25 red onion, very thinly sliced
6 very thin slices lemon, seeds removed
1 tablespoon small sprigs fresh rosemary
Freshly ground pepper
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling
Best Classic Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, butter, granulated sugar, and salt until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until fragrant and edges start to darken in color, 12 to 15 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition to incorporate, then fold in sour cream and vanilla
Add flour and salt and beat until just combined
Pour mixture into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up the sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Cooking spray
9 graham crackers (about 1 sleeve), finely crushed
6 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c. granulated sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
Chocolate Pudding Pizza
Preheat oven to 375°
Prepare cookie mix dough according to package directions
Press into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Bake until set, about 15 minutes; cool.
Beat cream cheese until smooth
Spread over crust
In another bowl, beat milk and pudding mix on medium speed for 2 minutes
Spread over cream cheese layer
Refrigerate until set, about 20 minutes
Spread with whipped topping
Sprinkle with chips
Chill for 1-2 hours.
1 package (17-1/2 ounces) peanut butter cookie mix
1 carton (12 ounces) spreadable cream cheese, softened
1-3/4 cups cold whole milk
1 package (3.9 ounces) instant chocolate pudding mix
1 carton (8 ounces) frozen whipped topping, thawed
1/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Classic Cheesecake
Preheat oven and make crust: Preheat oven to 375°F
Make crust: Butter a 9-by-3-inch springform pan
In a food processor, pulse graham crackers until fine crumbs form
Add remaining crust ingredients and combine: Add melted butter, sugar, and salt, and pulse to combine.
Press crust into pan: Press crumb mixture into bottom and about 1 inch up side of pan.
Bake crust: Bake until set, 12 to 15 minutes; let cool on a wire rack
Reduce oven to 325°F.
Boil water and make filling: Set a kettle of water to boil
Using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese on medium until fluffy, scraping down side of bowl.
Add sugar: Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy.
Add lemon and salt: Beat in lemon zest and juice, and salt.
Add eggs: Beat in eggs, one at a time, scraping down side of bowl after each addition.
Add sour cream: Beat in sour cream.
Prepare pan, add filling, and place in water bath: Wrap bottom half of pan in foil
Pour in filling; place pan in a roasting pan
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform.
Bake: Bake until just set in center, about 1 3/4 hours
Remove pan from water bath; let cool 20 minutes.
Cool, then refrigerate: Run a paring knife around edge; let cool completely
Cover; chill overnight before serving.
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus room-temperature butter for pan
12 graham crackers (3-by-5 inch)
0.25 cup sugar
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
2.5 pounds bar cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest, plus 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
0.5 teaspoon coarse salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350º and butter and flour two 9" cake pans
Prepare red velvet cake batter according to box instructions.
Divide batter among prepared cake pans and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes
Let cool slightly in cake pans, then invert onto a wire rack to cool completely
Using a serrated knife, level out tops of the cake so they're flat (save scraps for decorating!).
Make cheesecake layer: Line a 9" springform pan with parchment and spray with cooking spray
In a large bowl using a hand mixer or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and sugar until fluffy and combined, 3 minutes
Add eggs, one a time, until combined
Add sour cream, flour, vanilla, and salt and beat until combined.
Pour filling into prepared springform pan and bake until only slightly jiggly in the center, about 1 hour
Let cool slightly, then transfer to the freezer to cool completely and firm up before assembling.
Make cream cheese frosting: In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy, then add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat until combined.
Assemble cake: On a cake platter, place one red velvet cake
Top with cheesecake layer, pressing down firmly, then top with second red velvet cake.
Using an offset spatula, frost cake with cream cheese frosting.
Garnish with red velvet cake crumbs before serving.
Butter, for cake pans
All-purpose flour, for cake pans
1 box red velvet cake mix, plus ingredients called for on the box
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/3 c. sour cream
1 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
1/2 c. (1 stick) butter, softened
2 1/4 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Family-Favorite Cheesecake
In a small bowl, combine the cracker crumbs, sugar and cinnamon; stir in butter
Press onto the bottom and 2 in
up the sides of a greased 9-in
springform pan
Bake at 350° for 5 minutes
Cool on a wire rack
Reduce heat to 325°.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Add egg yolks; beat on low just until blended.
In a small bowl, beat egg whites until soft peaks form; fold into cream cheese mixture
Pour over crust.
Bake for 1 hour or until center is almost set
Cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes
Carefully run a knife around edge of pan to loosen; cool 1 hour longer
Refrigerate until completely cooled.
Combine the sour cream, sugar and vanilla; fold in whipped cream
Spread over cheesecake
Refrigerate overnight
Remove sides of pan.
2-1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs (about 40 squares)
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup butter, melted
FILLING:
3 packages (8 ounces each) cream cheese, softened
1-1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs, separated, room temperature
TOPPING:
1/2 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream, whipped
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Pizza dough
It’s easiest to make this in a standing mixer with a dough hook (otherwise mix it in a bowl and knead on your work surface)
Put the flour and salt in the bowl and mix the yeast into the water
It’s always a good idea to wait 5 mins before using the liquid to see if the yeast is working – little bits will start to rise to the top and you’ll know it’s active.
Turn on the motor and pour in the liquid
Keep the speed on medium-high and it should come together as a ball
If the bottom is still sticking, tip in 1-2 tbsp of flour
Knead for 5-7 mins until the dough is shiny and it springs back when you press your finger into it
(If kneading by hand, it will take you about 10 mins.) Try not to add too much flour if you can
This is a slightly sticky dough, but that keeps it light and it rises beautifully.
Use oiled hands to remove the dough from the hook and bowl
Oil another bowl and place the dough in it
Turn it around so that it’s lightly coated in the oil
Cover tightly with cling film and then a tea towel
Place in a draught-free area that’s warm and leave until the dough has doubled in size
If it’s a hot day, it should only take 2 to 3 hrs to rise, but it could take 4 hrs if it’s cold
(If you don’t plan to use the dough for a day or two, place it in the fridge straight away; take it out 3-4 hrs before using
Punch it down first and bring it together on a floured surface.)
Divide the dough into 2 pieces for big pizzas or 4 for plate-sized ones, then shape into balls (see Shaping the dough in tips, below) – dust them in flour as they will be sticky
Keep them covered with a tea towel or cling film, for 20-30 mins, while you prepare the toppings
You can also freeze them in sealed bags
Just thaw in the fridge on the day, then bring to room temperature 3 hrs before using.
To shape the dough: If you want to get air pockets and a light but crisp dough, then don’t use a rolling pin
It flattens and pops the air bubbles
(Two days in the fridge will produce the most air bubbles – take it out three to four hours before using.) If your dough is at room temperature, you can use your fingers to gently stretch the dough out
Once it’s about 16cm, place the disc over the tops of your hands (not palm side) and use them to stretch it further, up to about 25cm
You can start pressing out the other discs, then wait to do the final bit when you’re ready to cook
Once you’ve mastered stretching the dough out, you can experiment with other shapes: rectangles, rounds or squares all look authentic.
To cook the pizza: An outdoor gas barbecue is best for controlling the temperature, but charcoal will give your pizza a more authentic, smoky flavour
For gas, turn the flames down to medium-low so that the bottom of the pizza doesn't burn
When cooking on a charcoal barbecue, let the coals turn grey before you pop on the pizza.
Place the pizza on a floured baking sheet (with no edge) or a pizza peel – this is a flat pizza paddle with a long handle, which makes it easier to get the dough on and off the grill
The flour will provide the 'wheels' for it to slide onto the grill – don’t use oil as it sticks more and won’t transfer as well.
Make sure the grill is hot and the flames have died back if cooking on charcoal
Slide the dough onto the grill, close the lid (if your barbecue has one) and give it three to four minutes
The dough will puff up; it's ready when the bottom has light brown stripes
Use tongs to pull the dough off and turn it upside down.
Assemble the pizza of your choice – see 'Goes well with', right, for topping suggestions
Remember that less is more, as the dough will stay crisper and the toppings will cook better.
Place the pizza back on the grill, uncooked-side down, and shut the lid
Give it another three to four minutes, then remove when the cheese is melted and the toppings are hot.
500g '00' flour or plain flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp salt
½ tsp dried yeast (not fast-action)
300-350ml warm water
oil, for greasing
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Sopapilla Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375°
Grease a 9"-x-13" baking dish with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, sugar, eggs, sour cream, vanilla, and salt
Using a hand mixer, beat all ingredients together until smooth.
Press one sheet crescent dough into prepared baking dish, stretching to reach all edges of baking dish
If dough is perforated, pinch all perforations closed.
Spread cheesecake mixture in an even layer and top with another layer of crescent dough
Brush top with melted butter and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar.
Bake until crescent is golden and cooked through, 25 to 30 minutes.
Let cool and slice into squares.
Cooking spray
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1/2 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
2 (8-oz.) tubes refrigerated Crescent rolls
1 tbsp. melted butter
2 tbsp. cinnamon sugar
Enchilada Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
In a large skillet over medium heat, heat oil
Add onion and pepper and cook until soft, 5 minutes
Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more
Add beans, corn, chicken, and green chilis and cook until warmed through, 5 minutes
Reserve ½ cup enchilada sauce then pour remaining sauce into skillet, stirring to combine.
Spread reserved ½ cup enchilada sauce into a 9”-x-13” then layer 6 tortillas in pan, overlapping to cover the entire pan
Pour ⅓ of mixture over tortillas then top with about ⅓ of each cheese
Top with another layer of tortillas and repeat to make 2 more layers, finishing with cheese.
2 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 (15.5-oz.) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1 (15.25-oz.) can corn, drained
3 c. cooked, shredded chicken
1 (4.5-oz.) can diced green chilis
2 (10-oz.) cans enchilada sauce
18 corn tortillas
2 c. shredded cheddar
2 c. shredded Monterey jack
Sour cream, for garnish
Freshly chopped cilantro, for garnish
Diced avocado, for garnish
Triple-Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees
Assemble a 9-inch springform pan with the raised side of the bottom facing down.
In a food processor, pulse cookies until finely ground
Add butter, and pulse to moisten
Transfer to prepared pan, and press crumbs firmly and evenly into the bottom
Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet; bake 10 minutes, and set aside.
Wipe out bowl and blade of food processor
Add cream cheese, sugar, and salt; blend until smooth
With motor running, add eggs, then sour cream, and finally chocolate; blend filling until smooth, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Wrap bottom half of springform pan in foil
Pour in filling; place in a roasting pan
Place roasting pan in oven
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform pan
Bake just until set, 1 hour
Turn oven off, and let cheesecake sit 1 hour in oven, without opening (this helps prevent cracking).
Run a thin knife around the edge of the pan (this helps prevent cracking, too); leave in pan, and cool completely on wire rack
Cover loosely and refrigerate, at least 6 hours or up to overnight.
Prepare Chocolate Ganache
Unmold cheesecake
Spread ganache in center of cheesecake; let set before serving.
1 package (9 ounces) chocolate wafer cookies
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 bars (8 ounces each) cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
0.5 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
8 ounces semisweet chocolate, melted
Rich Chocolate Ganache , for topping
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Squash Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place squash and onion in a large skillet over medium heat; pour in water
Cover, and cook until squash is tender, about 5 minutes
Drain well, and place in a large bowl.
Mix cracker crumbs and cheese together in a medium bowl
Stir half of the cracker mixture into the cooked squash and onions.
Mix eggs and milk together in a small bowl, then add to squash mixture.
Stir in 1/4 cup melted butter, and season with salt and pepper
Spread into the prepared baking dish
Sprinkle with remaining cracker mixture, and dot with 2 tablespoons butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until lightly browned, about 25 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
4 cups sliced yellow squash
½ cup chopped onion
¼ cup water, or more as needed
35 buttery round crackers, crushed
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
2 large eggs, beaten
¾ cup milk
¼ cup butter, melted
1 teaspoon salt
ground black pepper to taste
2 tablespoons butter
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
Mamaw's Chicken and Rice Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease sides and bottom of a casserole dish.
Stir chicken, water, rice, cream of chicken soup, cream of celery soup, and cream of mushroom soup together in the prepared casserole dish; season with salt and pepper.
Arrange butter evenly over the top of the chicken mixture.
Bake in preheated oven until the rice is tender and the chicken is cooked through, 1 hour to 75 minutes
Cool 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
3 chicken breasts, cut into cubes
2 cups water
2 cups instant white rice
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of celery soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of mushroom soup
salt and ground black pepper to taste
½ cup butter, sliced into pats
Outdoor Pizza Oven Pizza Dough
Combine flour and yeast in the bowl of a food processor
Pulse 3 to 4 times until well-combined
With machine running, add water and continue to process until mixture forms rough ball and no dry flour remains, 10 to 20 seconds
Allow to rest for 20 minutes.
Add salt to top of dough and process until a mostly smooth ball of dough forms, 20 to 30 seconds
Dough temperature should register 75°F (24°C) on an instant-read thermometer when mixing is complete
If not, continue to mix in 10 second intervals until it reaches the desired dough temperature
Transfer dough ball to a lightly oiled medium bowl and knead once or twice by hand until smooth ball is formed
Cover bowl and let dough sit for 45 minutes.
Using lightly-moistened hands, knead dough in bowl until uniform in texture, 5 to 10 seconds
Cover and let sit at room temperature until puffy and not quite doubled in volume, 60 to 120 minutes.
Transfer dough to a lightly floured countertop and divide into four pieces of about 225g (8 ounces) each for 12-inch ovens, or three pieces of about 300g (10.5 ounces) each for 16-inch ovens
Form each portion into a smooth, round ball
Coat exterior of dough ball lightly with oil and place each in a 4- to 7-inch round, lidded plastic takeout container, or on a lightly-oiled tray, spaced at least 2 inches apart, covered loosely but completely
Refrigerate dough for at least 24 hours or up to 4 days (48 to 72 hours is ideal).
On the day you plan to bake pizzas, remove dough balls from refrigerator and allow to warm up, covered, 1 to 2 hours before baking
Exact timing depends upon ambient temperature; dough should reach at least 60°F (15.5°C) before stretching and baking.
535g (18.9 ounces; about 4 cups plus 3 tablespoons) high protein all-purpose flour, such as King Arthur (Baker’s percentage: 100%)
2g (0.07 ounce; 1/2 teaspoon) instant dry yeast, such as SAF (Baker’s percentage: 0.4%)
360g (12.7 ounces; about 1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon) water, at 40°F (4°C) (Baker’s percentage: 67%)
12g (0.4 ounce; 1 tablespoon) Diamond Crystal kosher salt (Baker’s percentage: 2%)
Extra-virgin olive oil for oiling proofing containers and dough balls
No-Rise Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Combine flour, sugar, yeast, and salt in a large bowl
Mix in warm water and oil until dough comes together.
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Make Crust: Stir together graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and sugar; press mixture into bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Make Cheesecake Filling: Beat cream cheese and granulated sugar at medium-low speed with an electric mixer 1 minute
Add eggs and next 6 ingredients (through food coloring), mixing on low speed just until fully combined
Pour batter into prepared crust.
Bake cheesecake: Bake at 325°F for 10 minutes; reduce heat to 300°F, and bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until center is firm
Run knife along outer edge of cheesecake
Turn oven off
Let cheesecake stand in oven 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake from oven; cool in pan on a wire rack 30 minutes
Cover and chill 8 hours.
Make Cream Cheese Topping: Beat 1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese and 1/4 cup butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until smooth; gradually add powdered sugar and vanilla, beating until smooth.
Assemble cheesecake: Spread evenly over top of cheesecake
Remove sides of springform pan
Garnish, if desired.
1 1/2 cups chocolate graham cracker crumbs
1/4 cup butter, melted
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
3 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
4 large eggs, lightly beaten
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whole buttermilk
2 tsp. vanilla extract
1 tsp. distilled white vinegar
2 (1-oz.) bottles red food coloring
1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/4 cup butter, softened
2 cups powdered sugar
1 tsp. vanilla extract
Fresh mint sprigs
Brownie Caramel Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a small bowl, mix together brownie mix, 1 egg and water
Spread into the greased pan
Bake for 25 minutes.
Melt the caramels with the evaporated milk over low heat in a heavy saucepan
Stir often, and heat until mixture has a smooth consistency
Reserve 1/3 cup of this caramel mixture, and pour the remainder over the warm, baked brownie crust.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla with an electric mixer until smooth
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Pour cream cheese mixture over caramel mixture.
Bake cheesecake for 40 minutes
Chill in pan
When cake is thoroughly chilled, loosen by running a knife around the edge, and then remove the rim of the pan
Heat reserved caramel mixture, and spoon over cheesecake
Drizzle with the chocolate topping.
1 (9 ounce) package brownie mix
1 egg
1 tablespoon cold water
1 (14 ounce) package individually wrapped caramels, unwrapped
1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 eggs
1 cup chocolate fudge topping
Best Tuna Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rapid boil
Cook egg noodles at a boil until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes; drain.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
Mix noodles, condensed soup, 1 cup cheese, tuna, peas, mushrooms, and onion in a large bowl until well combined.
Transfer the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Top the mixture with crushed potato chip and remaining 1 cup of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly, about 15 to 20 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 (12 ounce) package egg noodles
2 (10.5 ounce) cans condensed cream of mushroom soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese, divided
2 (5 ounce) cans tuna, drained
1 cup frozen green peas
½ (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
¼ cup chopped onion
1 cup crushed potato chips
Easy Mexican Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-baking dish with cooking spray.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 8 to 10 minutes.
Stir in salsa, reduce heat, and simmer until liquid is absorbed, about 20 minutes
Stir in beans; cook until heated through.
Spread crushed tortilla chips over the bottom of the baking dish; spoon beef mixture on top
Spread sour cream over beef, then sprinkle olives, green onion, and tomatoes on top
Cover with Cheddar cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until hot and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
Serve and enjoy!
1 pound lean ground beef
2 cups salsa
1 (16 ounce) can chili beans, drained
3 cups tortilla chips, crushed
2 cups sour cream
1 (2 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
½ cup chopped green onion
½ cup chopped fresh tomato
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
Grandma's Hamburger Casserole
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes; drain and discard grease.
Mix tomato sauce, sugar, garlic salt, and salt into the ground beef; simmer until flavors blend, about 20 minutes
Remove from the heat and cover the skillet.
While the sauce is cooking, bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook egg noodles in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain.
While the egg noodles are cooking, preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish.
Mix sour cream, cream cheese, and onion together in a bowl.
Layer 1/2 of the egg noodles into the prepared casserole dish
Top with 1/2 of the sour cream mixture, then 1/2 of the ground beef mixture
Repeat layers once more
Sprinkle Cheddar cheese over top.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
2 (15 ounce) cans tomato sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar, or to taste
1 teaspoon garlic salt, or to taste
1 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1 (8 ounce) package egg noodles
1 cup sour cream
3 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 large white onion, finely diced
½ cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese, or more to taste
Awesome Broccoli-Cheese Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Whisk condensed soup, mayonnaise, egg, and onions together in a medium mixing bowl until combined.
Place frozen broccoli into a very large mixing bowl and break it up if necessary; add soup mixture and mix well to coat
Sprinkle with cheese and mix well; spread mixture into the prepared baking dish
Season with salt, pepper, and paprika.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and the casserole is golden brown on top, 45 minutes to 1 hour.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 cup mayonnaise
1 large egg, beaten
¼ cup chopped onion
3 (10 ounce) packages frozen chopped broccoli
8 ounces shredded sharp Cheddar cheese
salt and pepper to taste
1 dash paprika
Million Dollar Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Stir cream of chicken soup, cottage cheese, sour cream, cream cheese, Creole seasoning, onion powder, and 1/2 teaspoon of the garlic powder in a medium bowl until well blended and smooth.
Fold in chicken and parsley until evenly coated.
Combine crackers, melted butter, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder in a medium bowl.
Spoon chicken mixture evenly into an 11x7-inch or 9-inch square baking dish
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella then top with cracker mixture.
Place on a foil-lined baking sheet and bake in the preheated oven until crackers are golden brown and edges are bubbly, about 35 minutes
Garnish with scallions, if desired.
1 (10.5 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
½ cup cottage cheese
½ cup sour cream
4 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
1 ½ teaspoons Creole seasoning
½ teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder, divided
5 cups shredded rotisserie chicken
1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley
30 buttery round crackers (such as Ritz), crushed
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 teaspoon sliced scallions, or to taste
Sloppy Joe Casserole
Preheat oven to 375°
In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat oil
Add beef; season with 1 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper
Cook, breaking up beef with a wooden spoon, until crumbled and no longer pink, 6 to 8 minutes
Using a slotted spoon, transfer beef to a plate
Pour off all but 1 tablespoon fat.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onions, bell peppers, and garlic, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are softened, 10 to 12 minutes; season with salt and pepper
Add ketchup and cook, stirring occasionally, until ketchup is reduced to a thick paste, 5 to 6 minutes
Add chili powder and mustard and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds
Add tomato sauce, broth, vinegar, Worcestershire, and brown sugar and cook, stirring, until combined
Add beef and a few dashes of hot sauce (if using).
Transfer to a 2-quart baking dish
Top with rolls cut sides down
Brush with butter and sprinkle with cheese.
Bake casserole until rolls are toasted and cheese is melted, 10 to 15 minutes
Sprinkle with parsley (if using).
1 tbsp. vegetable oil
1 lb. ground beef
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 medium yellow onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
1 red bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2/3 c. ketchup
1 tbsp. chili powder
1 tsp. dried mustard
1 (8-oz.) can tomato sauce
1 c. low-sodium beef or chicken broth
2 tbsp. apple cider vinegar
2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
2 tsp. dark brown sugar
Hot sauce (optional)
8 sweet Hawaiian slider rolls, halved crosswise
1 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1 c. shredded cheddar
Chopped fresh parsley, for serving (optional)
Grandma's Hash Brown Casserole
Gather all ingredients
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix hash browns, Cheddar cheese, condensed soup, sour cream, 1/2 of the melted butter, onion, salt, and pepper in a bowl
Transfer mixture to a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Sprinkle cornflakes on top, then drizzle with remaining melted butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until sauce is bubbly and top is golden brown, 1 to 1 ½ hours.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (2 pound) package frozen hash brown potatoes, thawed
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
1 cup butter, melted, divided
½ cup chopped onion
½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 cup crushed cornflakes
Espresso Martini Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a food processor, pulse Oreos until fine crumbs form
Transfer to a large bowl
Add butter and salt and mix until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until darkened and fragrant, about 12 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a small pot over medium heat, heat cream and espresso powder, stirring frequently, until espresso is dissolved
Let cool.
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating to blend after each addition
Add cooled cream mixture, Kahlúa, and salt and beat until combined
Pour filling into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Topping
In a large bowl, using handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream, confectioners’ sugar, and espresso powder until medium peaks form.
Spread whipped cream over cheesecake
Cover one half of the top of cheesecake with parchment and dust exposed half with cocoa powder
Arrange a few espresso beans on undusted side.
Cooking spray
24 Oreos
4 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
Pinch of kosher salt
1/3 c. heavy cream
1 tbsp. instant espresso
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. Kahlúa
1/2 tsp. kosher salt
3/4 c. heavy cream
2 tbsp. confectioners' sugar
1/2 tsp. instant espresso
Unsweetened cocoa powder, for dusting
Espresso beans, for topping
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
Chicken Pizza
Let dough rest, covered, at room temperature for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 450°F.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add 1 1/2 teaspoons oil, chicken, and sausage; sauté 5 minutes
Remove mixture from pan
Add 1 tablespoon oil to pan; swirl
Add onion, mushrooms and garlic; sauté 5 minutes, stirring constantly.
Punch dough down
Sprinkle a baking sheet with cornmeal
Roll dough out to a 14-inch circle on baking sheet
Brush dough with 1 tablespoon oil; sprinkle with 2 ounces cheese
Arrange chicken mixture, vegetable mixture and bell pepper over cheese, leaving a 1/4-inch border
Top with remaining cheese and crushed red pepper
Bake at 450°F for 20 minutes or until golden
Sprinkle with herbs
Cut into slices.
1 (12-ounce) portion fresh pizza dough
2.5 tablespoons olive oil, divided
2 (6-ounce) skinless, boneless chicken breast halves, cubed
1 (4-ounce) link sweet Italian sausage, casing removed
0.25 cup vertically sliced onion
4 ounces cremini mushrooms, sliced
1 tablespoon chopped fresh garlic
2 teaspoons cornmeal
4 ounces fontina cheese, shredded
1 red bell pepper, seeded and sliced
0.75 teaspoon crushed red pepper
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme
Ancient Roman Cheesecake (Savillum)
Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Pour some water into a small, oven proof bowl, and place into the oven
Arrange the bay leaves over the bottom of the springform pan to cover.
Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl, then mix in ricotta cheese, honey, orange zest, and lemon juice
Sprinkle in the flour, and stir until evenly combined
Gently pour the batter over the bay leaves, being careful not to disturb them too much.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 35 to 40 minutes
Run the tip of a paring knife around the edges of the pan, and release from the springform pan
Invert onto a serving plate, and serve warm or chilled.
15 bay leaves
3 eggs
8 ounces ricotta cheese
½ cup honey
1 teaspoon grated orange zest
1 teaspoon lemon juice
½ cup all-purpose flour
Beef stew
Heat oven to 160C/140C fan/gas 3 and put the kettle on.
Put 2 thickly sliced celery sticks, 1 chopped onion, 2 chunkily sliced carrots, 5 bay leaves and 1 whole thyme sprig in a flameproof casserole dish with 1 tbsp vegetable oil and 1 tbsp butter.
Soften for 10 mins, then stir in 2 tbsp plain flour until it doesn’t look dusty anymore, followed by 2 tbsp tomato purée, 2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce and 2 crumbled beef stock cubes.
Gradually stir in 600ml hot water, then tip in 850g stewing beef and bring to a gentle simmer.
Cover and put in the oven for 2hrs 30 mins, then uncover and cook for 30mins – 1hr more until the meat is really tender and the sauce is thickened.
Garnish with the picked leaves of the remaining thyme sprig.
2 celery sticks, thickly sliced
1 onion, chopped
2 really big carrots, halved lengthways then very chunkily sliced
5 bay leaves
2 thyme sprigs, 1 whole and 1 leaves picked
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp butter
2 tbsp plain flour
2 tbsp tomato purée
2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
2 beef stock cubes, crumbled
850g stewing beef (featherblade or brisket works nicely), cut into nice large chunks
King Ranch Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat
Saute onion and bell peppers in the hot oil until warmed through, about 2 minutes
Transfer to a large bowl.
Add both cans of condensed soup, diced tomatoes with chile peppers, chicken broth, sour cream, cumin, ancho chile powder, oregano, and chipotle chile powder; mix until sauce is well-combined.
Spread a few tablespoons of sauce in the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish
Layer with 1/2 of the chicken, 1/2 of the sauce, 1/2 of the Cheddar cheese, and 1/2 of the tortillas.
Spread the remaining chicken over the tortillas
Spread all but 1/2 cup of the remaining sauce over the chicken, then top with another 1/3 of the Cheddar, and the remaining tortillas
Spread the remaining 1/2 cup over top, and sprinkle with the remaining Cheddar.
Bake casserole in the preheated oven until bubbling, about 40 minutes.
Turn on the broiler and broil until the top is golden, 2 to 3 more minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 medium white onion, diced
1 medium red bell pepper, diced
1 medium green bell pepper, diced
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers (such as RO*TEL®)
1 cup chicken broth
2 tablespoons sour cream
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon ancho chile powder
½ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon chipotle chile powder
1 (3 pound) cooked chicken, torn into shreds or cut into chunks
1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese
10 (6 inch) corn tortillas, cut into quarters
Easy French Toast Casserole
Gather all ingredients and grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Make the French toast: Stir brown sugar and butter together in a saucepan over medium-low heat until butter is melted and sugar has dissolved, 2 to 4 minutes
Pour butter-brown sugar mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Scatter French bread pieces over top in a 1 1/2- to 2-inch layer.
Whisk milk, eggs, and vanilla together in a bowl until well combined
Pour over bread pieces, then press bread down with a spatula so the bread absorbs the liquid
Cover the dish with plastic wrap and refrigerate, 8 hours to overnight.
When ready to bake, remove French toast from the refrigerator and discard plastic wrap
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
Make topping: Mix brown sugar and cinnamon together in a small bowl
Sprinkle over the French toast.
Bake in the preheated oven until casserole is browned and bubbling, about 30 minutes, covering with aluminum foil at any point if the top is browning too much.
To serve, cut into squares and invert onto serving plates.
1 cup brown sugar
½ cup unsalted butter
1 (8 ounce) loaf crusty French bread, cut into bite-sized pieces, or more as needed
2 cups milk
6 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 tablespoon brown sugar, or to taste
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon, or to taste
Casserole recipes

Casserole recipes
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Chèvre Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper.
Stir gingersnap crumbs and melted margarine in a bowl until well combined
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan and place in the freezer.
Beat chèvre and sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition
Mix in coconut milk
Mix in coconut yogurt, flour, and vanilla just until incorporated
Pour batter into chilled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off, keep the door closed, and allow cheesecake to cool inside for at least 2 hours
Refrigerate for an additional 4 to 6 hours before serving.
7 ounces gluten-free gingersnap cookies, finely crushed
¼ cup margarine, melted
2 pounds chevre (soft goat cheese) at room temperature
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup coconut milk
8 ounces cultured coconut milk (coconut milk yogurt)
¼ cup gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 tablespoon gluten-free vanilla extract
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
Lucinda's New York-Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven and prepare pan, Preheat oven to 375°F with rack in lower third of oven
Butter bottom and sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Line sides of pan with 4-inch-high strips of parchment and butter parchment.
Combine graham crackers and sugar for crust: In a food processor, pulse graham crackers with salt and sugar to fine crumbs.
Add butter: Add butter and pulse until fully incorporated.
Bake and cool crust: Press evenly into bottom of prepared springform pan and bake until crust is golden brown and set, 15 minutes
Remove from oven and transfer to wire rack to cool 10 minutes.
Mix cheesecake filling: In a large stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese, butter, and sour cream with sugar until light and smooth.
Add eggs, yolks, zest, and vanilla: Beat in eggs one at a time until fully incorporated
Beat in remaining egg yolks, zest, and vanilla extract.
Line pan with foil and parchment: Crisscross two long pieces of foil and place a piece of parchment on top.
Wrap exterior of pan in foil: Place springform in center of foil and wrap foil tightly around bottom and sides of pan.
Place pan in water bath: transfer to oven and bake: Transfer to a roasting pan, pour filling into springform pan, and smooth the top
Pour boiling water into roasting pan to come halfway up the sides of the springform pan and carefully transfer to oven
Bake for 1 hour until top of cheesecake is golden brown, edges are set, and center jiggles slightly.
Remove from water bath and foil; chill: Lift cheesecake from water bath, remove foil and parchment from outside of springform, and chill cheesecake in refrigerator for at least 8 hours.
Slice the cheesecake and serve: To serve, remove side of springform pan and parchment strips
Cut cheesecake with a long, thin-bladed knife.
4 ounces graham crackers, broken into pieces
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
0.333 cup sugar
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2.5 pounds cream cheese (five 8-ounce packages), room temperature
4 ounces unsalted butter, room temperature
8 ounces sour cream, room temperature
1.75 cups granulated sugar
5 large eggs, plus 2 egg yolks
Zest of 1 lemon
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Marbled Pumpkin Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix together the crushed gingersnap cookies, pecans, and butter
Press into the bottom, and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake crust 10 minutes in the preheated oven
Set aside to cool.
In a medium bowl, mix together the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, and vanilla just until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time, blending well after each
Set aside 1 cup of the mixture
Blend 1/4 cup sugar, pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg into the remaining mixture.
Spread the pumpkin flavored batter into the crust, and drop the plain batter by spoonfuls onto the top
Swirl with a knife to create a marbled effect.
Bake 55 minutes in the preheated oven, or until filling is set
Run a knife around the edge of the pan
Allow to cool before removing pan rim
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed gingersnap cookies
½ cup finely chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup canned pumpkin
¾ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Yummy Sweet Potato Casserole
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Prepare sweet potatoes: Put sweet potatoes in a medium saucepan and cover with water
Cook over medium-high heat until tender, 10 to 15 minutes
Drain and transfer to a large bowl.
Mash drained sweet potatoes with a fork
Add eggs; mix until well combined
Add sugar, milk, butter, vanilla, and salt; mix until smooth
Transfer to a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Make topping: Mix brown sugar and flour together in a medium bowl
Cut in butter with a pastry cutter until mixture is coarse and looks like peas; don't overmix
Stir in pecans
Sprinkle topping over sweet potato mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until topping is lightly browned, about 30 minutes.
Enjoy!
4 cups peeled, cubed sweet potatoes
2 large eggs, beaten
½ cup white sugar
½ cup milk
4 tablespoons butter, softened
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup packed brown sugar
⅓ cup all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons butter, softened
½ cup chopped pecans
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
Grease a 13"-by-9" glass baking dish with oil.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat
Add pasta and 2 tablespoons salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente, 7 to 9 minutes (pasta should still be slightly undercooked in the center)
Drain pasta; set aside.
Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon oil
Add sausage and cook, breaking into bite-size pieces, until browned and cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes
Transfer sausage to a medium bowl, leaving as much fat in skillet as possible.
In same skillet over medium heat, combine mushrooms and 1 tablespoon oil; season with 1/2 teaspoon salt
Cook, tossing occasionally, until browned, 5 to 6 minutes
Transfer mushrooms to bowl with sausage.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onion, garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 2 tablespoons oil, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened, 4 to 5 minutes
Stir in tomato sauce, diced tomatoes, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt
Remove 2 cups sauce and reserve
Fold bell peppers and cooked sausage, mushrooms, and reserved pasta into remaining sauce
Cook, stirring, until heated through, 1 to 2 minutes more.
Pour half of pasta mixture into prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle with 1 cup mozzarella
Top with remaining pasta mixture
Pour reserved 2 cups sauce over.
Cover pan with foil and bake until hot and bubbling around the edges, about 20 minutes
Remove foil, top with remaining 2 cups mozzarella, then pepperoni, and continue to bake until cheese is melted and pepperoni is browned, 15 to 20 minutes more.
4 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, divided, plus more for pan
12 oz. cavatappi pasta
2 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. kosher salt, divided
1 lb. Italian sausage, casings removed
8 oz. cremini mushrooms, stemmed and sliced
1 small yellow onion, chopped (about 1 1/2 c.)
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce
1 (14.5-oz.) can diced tomatoes
1 1/2 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. dried basil
1/4 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
1/2 green bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped into 1/2" pieces
3 c. shredded mozzarella, divided
1/3 c. sliced pepperoni (about 2 oz.)
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Zucchini Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place zucchini into a colander and sprinkle with salt; let drain for 15 minutes, then squeeze out the moisture.
Combine zucchini, 1 cup mozzarella, and 1/2 cup Monterey Jack in a large bowl
Mix in Parmesan and eggs until well combined
Press into the prepared baking dish.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add ground beef and onion to the hot skillet; cook and stir until beef is crumbly, evenly browned, and no longer pink
Drain and discard any excess grease
Stir in tomato sauce and Italian seasoning.
Remove crust from the oven and spoon sauce mixture over top
Scatter bell pepper, mushrooms, black olives, and remaining mozzarella and Monterey Jack over sauce.
Return to the oven and bake until heated through, about 20 minutes
Let sit for 5 minutes before slicing into six pieces and serving.
4 cups shredded unpeeled zucchini
½ teaspoon salt
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese, divided
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 pound ground beef
½ cup chopped onion
1 (15 ounce) can Italian-style tomato sauce
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
1 green bell pepper, chopped
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms
½ cup sliced black olives
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Sopapilla Cheesecake Pie
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth.
Unroll crescent roll dough, and use a rolling pin to shape each sheet into a 9x13-inch rectangle
Press one piece into the bottom of the prepared baking dish
Evenly spread cream cheese mixture on top, then cover with remaining piece of crescent dough.
Mash remaining 3/4 cup sugar, butter, and cinnamon with a fork until combined
Dot mixture over top of dough.
Bake in the preheated oven until crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown, about 30 minutes.
Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey
Cool completely in the pan for about 2 hours before cutting into 12 squares.
cooking spray
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract
2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls
½ cup butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup honey
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Chocolate Cookie Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Combine cookie crumbs, brown sugar, melted butter, and cinnamon in a medium bowl; firmly press mixture evenly onto the bottom and 1 inch up the sides of a 10-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 5 minutes; set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Gradually mix in 1 1/4 cups sugar, heavy whipping cream, flour, and 1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat in eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition
Pour 1/3 of the batter into the prepared pan
Top with cookie pieces; pour in remaining batter.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove cake from the oven.
Combine sour cream, remaining 1/4 cup sugar, and remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla; spread evenly on cheesecake
Continue baking for 7 minutes
Turn oven off, leaving cheesecake in for an additional 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake and let cool completely on a wire rack.
Make the chocolate topping: Combine chocolate chips and heavy whipping cream in a saucepan; stir over low heat until chocolate melts, then stir in vanilla
Pour mixture over cheesecake while still warm.
Refrigerate before serving, at least 8 hours or overnight
Remove about 1/2 hour to 1 hour before serving and remove the ring from the springform pan.
2 cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
¼ cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar, divided
⅓ cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
16 ounces sour cream
1 ½ cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Pizza Pasta
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente; drain.
In a medium skillet over medium-high heat, cook beef with onion until beef is brown
Drain
Combine beef mixture with spaghetti sauce, pepperoni and cooked pasta and pour into a 9x13 inch baking dish
Top with mozzarella.
Bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes, until cheese is melted and golden.
8 ounces rotini pasta
1 pound lean ground beef
1 small onion, diced
1 (28 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
4 ounces sliced pepperoni sausage
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
The Cheesecake Factory Original Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475°F
Place a large pan filled with 1/2 inch water in oven.
Make crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs and cinnamon; add butter or margarine
Press crust onto bottom and 2/3 of the way up a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment
Wrap a large piece of foil around bottom of pan
Freeze until filling is prepared.
Make filling: Use an electric mixer to mix cream cheese, sugar, sour cream and vanilla
Blend until smooth and creamy
Scrape down sides of bowl
Whisk eggs in a bowl; add to cream cheese mixture
Blend just until eggs are incorporated.
Remove crust from freezer and pour in filling
Carefully place cheesecake into preheated water bath
Bake for 12 minutes; turn oven to 350°F and bake until top of cheesecake turns golden, 50 to 60 minutes
Remove cake to a wire rack to cool.
Make topping: Combine sour cream and sugar; spread over cake
Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours.
Crust:
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup unsalted butter or margarine, melted
FILLING:
4 (8 oz.) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups sugar
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
5 large eggs
TOPPING:
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
No-Bake Cheesecake
Crush graham crackers: Put graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag, and crush them with a rolling pin until very fine crumbs form.
Mix graham-cracker crumbs with sugar and butter: Pour crumbs into a medium bowl; stir in sugar
Add butter and stir until well combined.
Press crumb mixture into springform pan: Press the crumb mixture into a 9-inch springform pan, spreading it 1 1/2 to 2 inches up the side; press flat
Chill crust in freezer at least 10 minutes.
Make filling: Meanwhile, make the filling: Using an electric mixer set at medium-high speed, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in the condensed milk a little at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl, as necessary
Beat in the lemon juice and vanilla.
Add filling to crust, cover, and refrigerate: Pour the filling into the crust; smooth the top with a rubber spatula
Cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until firm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours.
Remove cheesecake from pan and serve: Unclasp sides of pan, and remove cheesecake.
2 packages (20 sheets) graham crackers
11 tablespoons (1 ⅜ sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 14-ounce can (1 ¼ cups) sweetened condensed milk
0.25 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Very, Very, Very Good Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease and flour a 9 inch springform pan.
Using an electric mixer, beat the butter, cream cheese and sugar until light and fluffy
Beat in the eggs, one at a time, until blended
Stir in the heavy cream, cornstarch and vanilla.
Wrap the bottom of the springform pan with aluminum foil
Line a roasting pan with a damp kitchen towel
Place cheesecake pan on towel, inside roasting pan, and place roasting pan on oven rack
Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the cheesecake pan
Bake for 60 minutes, or until center of the cheesecake is just firm
Cool at room temperature for 1 hour
Refrigerate until set before removing from pan.
1 cup butter, room temperature
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs, room temperature
2 cups heavy cream
1 ½ tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Sour Cream Cheesecake
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Place pie crust in a pan.
Cream together cream cheese and sugar.
Add eggs one at a time, blending well.
Add sour cream and vanilla.
Pour into prepared crust in the pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the cake is set and jiggles evenly across the top when lightly shaken, 60 to 70 minutes.
Run a knife around the outside edge but leave the cake in the pan
Let cool on the counter, then place in refrigerator
Remove from pan when completely chilled, and serve.
1 (9 inch) prepared shortbread pie crust
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Homemade Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Make crust: Combine graham cracker crumbs, walnuts, and cinnamon sugar in the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of the pan and 1 to 2 inches up the sides
Place in the freezer to set up.
While crust chills, make filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric hand mixer until combined
Add heavy cream slowly while beating on low speed; mix until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating on low speed until combined
Remove crust from the freezer and pour in filling.
Bake in the preheated oven until center appears almost set when gently shaken, 35 to 45 minutes
Remove cheesecake carefully from the oven and place on a wire rack to cool, about 15 minutes.
Slide a butter knife around the outer edge to separate cheesecake from the pan
Let cool to room temperature, about 30 minutes
Unclip the side of the pan and remove the ring
Let cool for another 30 minutes; chill in the refrigerator at least 4 hours to overnight before serving.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup finely ground walnuts
1 tablespoon cinnamon sugar
½ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
3 large eggs, slightly beaten
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Keto Chicken Crust Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Mix ground chicken, mozzarella, Parmesan, garlic, Italian seasoning, salt, and pepper together in a large bowl with your hands until well combined
Fold in basil.
Place chicken mixture between two pieces of parchment paper
Gently press on the top piece of parchment and spread mixture into a circle or rectangle with a thickness of 1/4 to 1/2 inch
Remove and discard the top piece of parchment paper.
Bake in the preheated oven until starting to brown on the edges, 35 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground chicken
½ cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
¼ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon pepper
1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil
New York Italian Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Move an oven rack to the middle of the oven.
Beat the cream cheese, ricotta cheese, and sugar in a large mixing bowl with an electric mixer until well combined
Beat in the eggs, one at a time
Add the butter, flour, cornstarch, and vanilla extract; mix until well combined
Fold in the sour cream and lemon juice
Pour the mixture into an ungreased 10-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake in the oven for 2 more hours
Remove from oven and let cool completely
Run a thin spatula around the edge of the cheesecake before springing open the pan to remove
Serve at room temperature or cold; refrigerate leftovers.
1 pound cream cheese, softened
1 pound ricotta cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
¼ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
2 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sour cream
2 tablespoons lemon juice (Optional)
Garden Veggie Pizza Squares
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Roll out crescent rolls onto a large nonstick baking sheet
Stretch and flatten to form a single rectangular shape on the baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 11 to 13 minutes
Allow to cool.
Mix cream cheese with 1/2 of the ranch dressing mix in a medium bowl; add more dressing mix to taste
Spread mixture over cooled crust.
Arrange carrots, bell peppers, broccoli, and green onions on top
Chill in the refrigerator for about 1 hour
Cut into 48 bite-sized squares to serve.
1 (8 ounce) package refrigerated crescent rolls
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (1 ounce) package Ranch-style dressing mix
2 carrots, finely chopped
½ cup chopped red bell peppers
½ cup chopped green bell pepper
½ cup fresh broccoli, chopped
½ cup chopped green onions
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Best Classic Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, butter, granulated sugar, and salt until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until fragrant and edges start to darken in color, 12 to 15 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition to incorporate, then fold in sour cream and vanilla
Add flour and salt and beat until just combined
Pour mixture into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up the sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Cooking spray
9 graham crackers (about 1 sleeve), finely crushed
6 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c. granulated sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
Classic Cheesecake
Preheat oven and make crust: Preheat oven to 375°F
Make crust: Butter a 9-by-3-inch springform pan
In a food processor, pulse graham crackers until fine crumbs form
Add remaining crust ingredients and combine: Add melted butter, sugar, and salt, and pulse to combine.
Press crust into pan: Press crumb mixture into bottom and about 1 inch up side of pan.
Bake crust: Bake until set, 12 to 15 minutes; let cool on a wire rack
Reduce oven to 325°F.
Boil water and make filling: Set a kettle of water to boil
Using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese on medium until fluffy, scraping down side of bowl.
Add sugar: Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy.
Add lemon and salt: Beat in lemon zest and juice, and salt.
Add eggs: Beat in eggs, one at a time, scraping down side of bowl after each addition.
Add sour cream: Beat in sour cream.
Prepare pan, add filling, and place in water bath: Wrap bottom half of pan in foil
Pour in filling; place pan in a roasting pan
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform.
Bake: Bake until just set in center, about 1 3/4 hours
Remove pan from water bath; let cool 20 minutes.
Cool, then refrigerate: Run a paring knife around edge; let cool completely
Cover; chill overnight before serving.
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus room-temperature butter for pan
12 graham crackers (3-by-5 inch)
0.25 cup sugar
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
2.5 pounds bar cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest, plus 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
0.5 teaspoon coarse salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
Valentino's Pizza Crust
Stir water, sugar and yeast together until dissolved
Add the olive oil and the salt
Stir in the flour until well blended
Let dough rest for 10 minutes.
Pat dough into pan or on to a pizza stone using fingers dipped in olive oil
If desired sprinkle basil, thyme or other seasonings on crust
Top with your favorite pizza toppings and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in a preheated 425 degree oven.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350º and butter and flour two 9" cake pans
Prepare red velvet cake batter according to box instructions.
Divide batter among prepared cake pans and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes
Let cool slightly in cake pans, then invert onto a wire rack to cool completely
Using a serrated knife, level out tops of the cake so they're flat (save scraps for decorating!).
Make cheesecake layer: Line a 9" springform pan with parchment and spray with cooking spray
In a large bowl using a hand mixer or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and sugar until fluffy and combined, 3 minutes
Add eggs, one a time, until combined
Add sour cream, flour, vanilla, and salt and beat until combined.
Pour filling into prepared springform pan and bake until only slightly jiggly in the center, about 1 hour
Let cool slightly, then transfer to the freezer to cool completely and firm up before assembling.
Make cream cheese frosting: In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy, then add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat until combined.
Assemble cake: On a cake platter, place one red velvet cake
Top with cheesecake layer, pressing down firmly, then top with second red velvet cake.
Using an offset spatula, frost cake with cream cheese frosting.
Garnish with red velvet cake crumbs before serving.
Butter, for cake pans
All-purpose flour, for cake pans
1 box red velvet cake mix, plus ingredients called for on the box
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/3 c. sour cream
1 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
1/2 c. (1 stick) butter, softened
2 1/4 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Air Fryer Pizza
Preheat the air fryer for 5 minutes at 380 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray the air fryer basket with olive oil spray or line with a parchment liner to avoid sticking.
Remove crust from the can, and cut in half
Shape each piece of dough into a circle and crimping up the edges to form a crust
Make sure it'll fit in your air fryer basket
Carefully transfer one pizza crust to the air fryer basket and spray lightly with olive oil spray
Prick the dough with a fork and precook for 3 minutes.
Spread 3 tablespoons pizza sauce onto the crust in the air fryer basket and sprinkle with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese
Top with 7 pepperoni slices and half of the onion slices
Sprinkle with basil and red pepper flakes, if using.
Cook until crust is golden brown and crispy and the cheese has melted, 7 to 9 minutes
Keep in mind that cooking times may vary depending on the brand and size of your air fryer, so check frequently to be sure nothing overcooks or burns
Repeat procedure with the second pizza crust
Serve hot.
olive oil cooking spray
1 (13.8 ounce) package refrigerated pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)
6 tablespoons pizza sauce, divided
10 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
14 slices pepperoni, divided
½ cup onion slices, divided (Optional)
sprinkle of dried basil and red pepper flakes (optional)
Chocolate Cappuccino Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter one 9 or 10 inch springform pan.
Combine the chocolate wafer crumbs, softened butter, 2 tablespoons white sugar, and the cinnamon
Mix well and press mixture into the buttered springform pan, set aside.
In a medium sized bowl beat the softened cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add 1 cup white sugar mixing until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time
Beat at low speed until very smooth.
Melt the 8 ounces semisweet chocolate with 2 tablespoons whipping cream in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth.
Add chocolate mixture to cream cheese mixture and blend well
Stir in sour cream, salt, coffee, 1/4 cup coffee liqueur, and vanilla; beat until smooth
Pour mixture into prepared pan.
Bake in the center of oven at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 45 minutes
Center will be soft but will firm up when chilled
Do not over bake
Leave cake in oven with the heat turned off and the door ajar for 45 minutes
Remove cake from oven and chill for 12 hours
Just before serving top cake with mounds of flavored whipped cream and garnish with chocolate leaves
Yields 16 servings.
To Make Flavored Whipped Cream: Beat whipping cream until soft peaks form, then beat in confectioner's sugar and 2 tablespoons coffee liqueur.
To Make Chocolate Leaves: Melt 1 ounce semisweet chocolate in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth
Brush real non-toxic plant leaves (such as orange leaves) on one side with melted chocolate
Freeze until firm and then peel off leaves
Freeze chocolate leaves until needed.
1 cup chocolate cookie crumbs
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
8 (1 ounce) squares semisweet chocolate
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 cup sour cream
¼ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons instant coffee granules dissolved in 1/4 cup hot water
¼ cup coffee flavored liqueur
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons coffee-flavored liqueur
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Key Lime Cheesecake
Combine graham cracker crumbs with butter
Press into the bottom and partially up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan; refrigerate while you prepare the filling.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Fill a shallow pan half full of hot water and place on the lower rack to minimize cracking.
To make the filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, lime zest, and cornstarch in a large bowl with an electric mixer until smooth and fluffy
Beat in eggs one at a time, blending just until smooth
Add Key lime juice with mixer on low
Finish mixing by hand
Do not overbeat, or the cake will crack during baking
Pour batter into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 55 to 65 minutes, or until set.
Turn the oven off, and let cheesecake stand in the oven for 30 minutes with the door open at least 4 inches
Remove from oven.
Refrigerate cheesecake 8 hours to overnight, and up to 3 days.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons butter, melted
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
1 tablespoon grated lime zest
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large eggs
⅔ cup key lime juice
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Reuben Pizza
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Grease a large pizza pan.
On a lightly floured surface, roll bread dough out into a large circle about 18-inches in diameter; transfer to the prepared pizza pan
Build up the edges, and prick the center all over with a fork so it doesn't form a dome when baking.
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden.
Spread 1/2 of the salad dressing over hot crust
Sprinkle with 1/2 of the Swiss cheese
Arrange corned beef on top of cheese, then drizzle with remaining salad dressing
Top with sauerkraut and remaining Swiss cheese
Sprinkle with caraway seed.
Bake for another 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until cheese melts and toppings are heated through
Sprinkle with chopped pickle
Let stand for 5 minutes before slicing.
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen whole wheat bread dough, thawed
½ cup thousand island dressing
2 cups shredded Swiss cheese
6 ounces deli sliced corned beef, cut into strips
1 cup sauerkraut - rinsed and drained
½ teaspoon caraway seed
¼ cup chopped dill pickles (Optional)
Mushroom-Prosciutto Pizza
Preheat oven to 450°.
Heat a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat
Coat pan with cooking spray
Add mushrooms and shallots to pan; sauté 7 minutes or until mushrooms are tender
Add garlic and thyme; sauté 1 minute
Stir in vinegar; remove from heat.
Place crust on the bottom rack of oven
Bake at 450° for 4 minutes.
Place the crust on a baking sheet
Spread mushroom mixture evenly over crust; sprinkle evenly with prosciutto and fontina cheese
Bake at 450° for 6 minutes or until cheese melts.
Tips: For a crisp crust, bake the pizza crust on the lowest rack for a few minutes before adding the toppings
Presliced button mushrooms can substitute for the creminis.
Cooking spray
8 ounces sliced cremini mushrooms
¼ cup finely chopped shallots
1 garlic clove, minced
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme
2 teaspoons sherry vinegar
1 (10-ounce) Italian cheese-flavored thin pizza crust (such as Boboli)
2 ounces prosciutto, cut into thin strips
⅓ cup (about 1 1/2 ounces) shredded fontina cheese
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Mary's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, 1/4 cup sugar and margarine until well blended 
Press mixture into a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese with sugar until smooth
In a separate bowl, combine cream, flour, eggs, lemon juice and vanilla
Beat together, and then pour into cream cheese mixture
Mix well
Pour filling into prepared graham cracker crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 65 minutes
Turn off oven, and cool cake in oven for 30 minutes
Prop door open and cool in oven for an additional 30 minutes
Remove from oven and cool completely
Refrigerate for as long as possible before serving.
2 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup white sugar
½ cup margarine, softened
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
1 pint heavy cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
7 eggs
2 teaspoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Naan Bread Margherita Pizza with Prosciutto
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil.
Place naan breads on the prepared baking sheet; brush each with olive oil
Sprinkle green onion and garlic over each naan
Arrange 4 slices mozzarella cheese onto each naan; top with tomato slices
Season tomatoes with salt and pepper
Top tomato layers with prosciutto, basil, and Parmesan cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until pizza is crispy on the edges and cheese is melted, about 8 minutes
Turn on the oven's broiler and broil until cheese is lightly browned and bubbling, about 2 minutes.
2 naan breads
2 teaspoons olive oil, or as needed
1 green onion, sliced
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
8 slices mozzarella cheese
1 large roma tomato, thinly sliced
salt and ground black pepper to taste
1 slice prosciutto, sliced
6 leaves fresh basil, roughly chopped
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Enchilada Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
In a large skillet over medium heat, heat oil
Add onion and pepper and cook until soft, 5 minutes
Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more
Add beans, corn, chicken, and green chilis and cook until warmed through, 5 minutes
Reserve ½ cup enchilada sauce then pour remaining sauce into skillet, stirring to combine.
Spread reserved ½ cup enchilada sauce into a 9”-x-13” then layer 6 tortillas in pan, overlapping to cover the entire pan
Pour ⅓ of mixture over tortillas then top with about ⅓ of each cheese
Top with another layer of tortillas and repeat to make 2 more layers, finishing with cheese.
2 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 (15.5-oz.) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1 (15.25-oz.) can corn, drained
3 c. cooked, shredded chicken
1 (4.5-oz.) can diced green chilis
2 (10-oz.) cans enchilada sauce
18 corn tortillas
2 c. shredded cheddar
2 c. shredded Monterey jack
Sour cream, for garnish
Freshly chopped cilantro, for garnish
Diced avocado, for garnish
Warm Fudge-Filled Cheesecake
Beat butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy; add 1/3 cup sugar, beating well
Gradually add flour, beating at low speed until blended
Stir in 1 teaspoon vanilla and pistachios
Press into bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake at 350° for 12 to 15 minutes or until golden
Cool on a wire rack.
Beat cream cheese at medium speed with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1 1/2 cups sugar, beating well
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating just until yellow disappears
Stir in remaining 2 teaspoons vanilla
(Do not overmix.)
Pour half of batter into crust; sprinkle with chocolate morsels to within 3/4 inch of edge
Pour in remaining batter, starting at outer edge and working toward center
Place cheesecake on a baking sheet.
Bake at 350° for 1 hour or until set
Cool on a wire rack 1 hour
Serve slightly warm with sweetened whipped cream, if desired
Garnish, if desired.
½ cup butter or margarine, softened
⅓ cup sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla, divided
⅔ cup chopped pistachios
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 (12-ounce) package semisweet chocolate mini-morsels
Sweetened whipped cream (optional)
Garnish: chocolate shavings
Passover Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
In a small bowl, stir together the crushed macaroons and butter
Press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven; remove and cool.
In a medium bowl, stir cream cheese and sugar together until well blended
Stir in matzo meal, milk and vanilla until smooth
Mix in the eggs one at a time.
Combine the chocolate chips and butter in a small microwave-safe dish
Heat at 30 second intervals until melted, stirring at each interval
Stir into the cream cheese batter
Pour the batter over the cooled crust and smooth the top.
Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes, or until the center appears solid when jiggled slightly.
2 ½ cups crushed chocolate macaroon cookies
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
4 teaspoons matzo meal
¼ cup milk
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 teaspoon butter
White Chocolate Blueberry Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C)
Make the crust: In a food processor, blend together the graham cracker crumbs, almonds and sugar until the almonds are ground fine
Pour in the melted butter and caramel while processing, until mixture is combined
Press the mixture onto the bottom, and half way up the side of a 10 inch springform pan.
Make the filling: In a metal bowl over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the white chocolate, stirring until smooth
Remove from heat and set aside
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese and 3/4 cup sugar until smooth
Beat in the eggs and the egg yolks, one at a time
Beat in the flour and the vanilla and blend in the melted white chocolate slowly, beating until the filling is well combined
Pour filling into crust.
Bake in the middle of preheated oven for 1 hour
Then turn off the heat, and crack the oven door an inch, letting the cheesecake cool in the oven to room temperature
Cover loosely and refrigerate overnight before removing from pan.
Make the topping: In a saucepan, combine 1/2 cup sugar and cornstarch
Stir in water and blueberries
Bring to a boil, then simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally
Press through a fine sieve
Stir in lemon juice, allow to cool, and store in a glass jar.
2 cups crushed graham crackers
1 cup slivered almonds
½ cup white sugar
¼ cup clarified butter, melted
2 tablespoons caramel topping
1 pound white chocolate, chopped
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
2 egg yolks
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
¼ cup water
1 pint fresh blueberries
2 teaspoons lemon juice
Pizza dough
It’s easiest to make this in a standing mixer with a dough hook (otherwise mix it in a bowl and knead on your work surface)
Put the flour and salt in the bowl and mix the yeast into the water
It’s always a good idea to wait 5 mins before using the liquid to see if the yeast is working – little bits will start to rise to the top and you’ll know it’s active.
Turn on the motor and pour in the liquid
Keep the speed on medium-high and it should come together as a ball
If the bottom is still sticking, tip in 1-2 tbsp of flour
Knead for 5-7 mins until the dough is shiny and it springs back when you press your finger into it
(If kneading by hand, it will take you about 10 mins.) Try not to add too much flour if you can
This is a slightly sticky dough, but that keeps it light and it rises beautifully.
Use oiled hands to remove the dough from the hook and bowl
Oil another bowl and place the dough in it
Turn it around so that it’s lightly coated in the oil
Cover tightly with cling film and then a tea towel
Place in a draught-free area that’s warm and leave until the dough has doubled in size
If it’s a hot day, it should only take 2 to 3 hrs to rise, but it could take 4 hrs if it’s cold
(If you don’t plan to use the dough for a day or two, place it in the fridge straight away; take it out 3-4 hrs before using
Punch it down first and bring it together on a floured surface.)
Divide the dough into 2 pieces for big pizzas or 4 for plate-sized ones, then shape into balls (see Shaping the dough in tips, below) – dust them in flour as they will be sticky
Keep them covered with a tea towel or cling film, for 20-30 mins, while you prepare the toppings
You can also freeze them in sealed bags
Just thaw in the fridge on the day, then bring to room temperature 3 hrs before using.
To shape the dough: If you want to get air pockets and a light but crisp dough, then don’t use a rolling pin
It flattens and pops the air bubbles
(Two days in the fridge will produce the most air bubbles – take it out three to four hours before using.) If your dough is at room temperature, you can use your fingers to gently stretch the dough out
Once it’s about 16cm, place the disc over the tops of your hands (not palm side) and use them to stretch it further, up to about 25cm
You can start pressing out the other discs, then wait to do the final bit when you’re ready to cook
Once you’ve mastered stretching the dough out, you can experiment with other shapes: rectangles, rounds or squares all look authentic.
To cook the pizza: An outdoor gas barbecue is best for controlling the temperature, but charcoal will give your pizza a more authentic, smoky flavour
For gas, turn the flames down to medium-low so that the bottom of the pizza doesn't burn
When cooking on a charcoal barbecue, let the coals turn grey before you pop on the pizza.
Place the pizza on a floured baking sheet (with no edge) or a pizza peel – this is a flat pizza paddle with a long handle, which makes it easier to get the dough on and off the grill
The flour will provide the 'wheels' for it to slide onto the grill – don’t use oil as it sticks more and won’t transfer as well.
Make sure the grill is hot and the flames have died back if cooking on charcoal
Slide the dough onto the grill, close the lid (if your barbecue has one) and give it three to four minutes
The dough will puff up; it's ready when the bottom has light brown stripes
Use tongs to pull the dough off and turn it upside down.
Assemble the pizza of your choice – see 'Goes well with', right, for topping suggestions
Remember that less is more, as the dough will stay crisper and the toppings will cook better.
Place the pizza back on the grill, uncooked-side down, and shut the lid
Give it another three to four minutes, then remove when the cheese is melted and the toppings are hot.
500g '00' flour or plain flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp salt
½ tsp dried yeast (not fast-action)
300-350ml warm water
oil, for greasing
Ladyfinger Cheesecake
Place ladyfingers on the bottom and around the edge of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a medium bowl, whip cream until peaks form.
In a large bowl, beat together the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Gently fold in the whipped cream.
Spoon 1/2 of cream cheese mixture into springform pan; cover with a layer of lady fingers and add remaining cream cheese mixture.
Layer remaining ladyfingers and top with fruit pie filling
Chill before serving.
3 (3 ounce) packages ladyfingers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup white sugar
1 pint heavy whipping cream
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
Special Italian Easter Pizza
Cook and stir Italian sausage in a skillet over medium heat until browned and crumbly, 5 to 8 minutes
Drain excess grease; set sausage aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Oil the bottom and sides of a 10-inch springform pan with olive oil.
Cut 1/3 of the dough off the loaf and set aside under a cloth
Form the remaining dough into a ball; roll ball on a floured work surface into a 14-inch circle
Press circle into the bottom and up the sides of the prepared pan; excess dough will hang over the edges.
Whisk 8 eggs in a 2-cup liquid measure.
Working with only 1/2 of the ingredients at a time, make layers in the pan in the following order: sausage, mozzarella, ham, provolone, salami, pepperoni, ricotta, and Parmesan
Pour in 1/2 of the beaten eggs
Repeat layers once more, starting with sausage and ending with Parmesan
Pour remaining beaten eggs over top.
Roll out remaining bread dough into a 12-inch circle
Place over the pie to form a top crust
Roll and pinch any overhanging bottom crust over top crust to seal in the filling.
Beat remaining egg and water in a small bowl
Brush egg wash over top crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crust is golden brown and the filling is set, 50 to 60 minutes
A toothpick inserted into the middle of the crust should come out without any raw egg.
Remove from the oven and cool in the pan for at least 25 minutes, then release the spring and remove from the pan
Transfer to a serving platter and cut into wedges for serving.
½ pound bulk Italian sausage
1 tablespoon olive oil, or as needed
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen bread dough, thawed
9 large eggs, divided
½ pound sliced mozzarella cheese
½ pound sliced cooked ham
½ pound sliced provolone cheese
½ pound sliced salami
½ pound sliced pepperoni
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon water
Basque Cheesecake
Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 400°
Brush pan with unsalted butter, then line with 2 overlapping 16x12" sheets of parchment paper, making sure parchment comes at least 2" above top of pan on all sides
Because the parchment needs to be pleated and creased in some areas to fit in pan, you won’t end up with a clean, smooth outer edge to the cake; that’s okay! Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet.
Beat 2 lb
cream cheese, room temperature, and 1½ cups (300 g) sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium-low speed, scraping down sides of the bowl, until very smooth, no lumps remain, and sugar has dissolved, about 2 minutes
(You can also use a large bowl with a hand mixer on medium low-speed, but you may need to continue beating for a few extra minutes to dissolve sugar.)
Increase speed to medium and add 6 large eggs, one egg at a time, beating until each egg is incorporated, about 15 seconds, before adding the next
Scrape down sides of bowl, then reduce mixer speed to medium-low
Add 2 cups heavy cream, 1 tsp
Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp
Morton kosher salt, and 1 tsp
vanilla extract and beat until combined, about 30 seconds.
Turn off mixer and sift ⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour evenly over cream cheese mixture using a fine-mesh sieve
Beat on low speed until incorporated, about 15 seconds
Scrape down sides of the bowl (yet again) and continue to beat until batter is very smooth, homogenous, and silky, about 10 seconds.
Pour batter into prepared pan
Bake cheesecake until deeply golden brown on top and still very jiggly in the center, 60–65 minutes.
Let cool slightly (cake will collapse drastically as it cools), then unmold
Let cool completely
Carefully peel away parchment from sides of cheesecake
Slice into wedges and serve at room temperature, preferably with a glass of sherry alongside
Do Ahead: Basque cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead
Cover and chill
Let cheesecake sit at room temperature for several hours to remove chill before serving
Editor’s note: This Basque-style cheesecake was first printed online in January 2019 as “Basque Burnt Cheesecake.” Head this way for more of our favorite Easter desserts →
Unsalted butter (for pan)
2 lb. cream cheese, room temperature
1½ cups (300 g) sugar
6 large eggs
2 cups heavy cream
1 tsp. Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp. Morton kosher salt
1 tsp. vanilla extract
⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour
Sherry (for serving; optional)
A 10"-diameter springform pan
Squash Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place squash and onion in a large skillet over medium heat; pour in water
Cover, and cook until squash is tender, about 5 minutes
Drain well, and place in a large bowl.
Mix cracker crumbs and cheese together in a medium bowl
Stir half of the cracker mixture into the cooked squash and onions.
Mix eggs and milk together in a small bowl, then add to squash mixture.
Stir in 1/4 cup melted butter, and season with salt and pepper
Spread into the prepared baking dish
Sprinkle with remaining cracker mixture, and dot with 2 tablespoons butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until lightly browned, about 25 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
4 cups sliced yellow squash
½ cup chopped onion
¼ cup water, or more as needed
35 buttery round crackers, crushed
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
2 large eggs, beaten
¾ cup milk
¼ cup butter, melted
1 teaspoon salt
ground black pepper to taste
2 tablespoons butter
Eric's Best New York Style Cheesecake
Bring all ingredients to room temperature
Place oven shelf in the center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Wrap the outside of a 9 inch springform pan with foil
Generously butter the inside of the pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth
Mix in sugar and cornstarch
Blend in sour cream and whipping cream
Add amaretto and vanilla
Stir in eggs and egg yolk one at a time, mixing thoroughly between each addition
Pour batter into prepared pan.
Pour mixture into prepared springform pan
Place pan in another pan at least one inch wider than cake pan and add warm water to the outer pan to create a water bath for the cake (this prevents cracks in your cheesecake)
Bake on the center rack of oven for 70 minutes.
Turn oven off and allow to cool with oven door open for one hour
Then remove cake from water bath and chill at least 3 hours before removing from springform pan.
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 ½ cups sour cream
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 ¾ cups white sugar
⅛ cup cornstarch
1 fluid ounce amaretto liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 eggs
1 egg yolks
Zucchini Pizza Bites
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread zucchini slices in 1 layer on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until zucchini is tender, about 15 minutes.
Spoon pizza sauce over each zucchini slice and top with pepperoni and mozzarella cheese
Sprinkle herbs over each.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 5 minutes more.
2 zucchini, sliced into 1/4-inch thick rounds
1/4 cup pizza sauce, or more to taste
20 slices pepperoni, or more to taste
1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or as needed
Italian seasoning, dried parsley, or oregano for sprinkling (Optional)
Cheesecake Fruit Salad
Combine milk and pudding mix in the bowl of a stand mixer and mix until incorporated
Slowly blend in cream cheese, increasing the speed to high until mixture is smooth
Mixture should be somewhat thick.
Fold in frozen whipped topping, using a spatula, until well incorporated and mixture is light and creamy
Add grapes, strawberries, bananas, blackberries, raspberries, and blueberries
Fold in gently, until fruit is well coated and evenly mixed in
Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.
1 ½ cups milk
1 (3.4 ounce) package instant cheesecake pudding mix
2 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping, thawed
3 cups grapes
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and sliced
2 large bananas, sliced
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blackberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh raspberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blueberries
Mamaw's Chicken and Rice Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease sides and bottom of a casserole dish.
Stir chicken, water, rice, cream of chicken soup, cream of celery soup, and cream of mushroom soup together in the prepared casserole dish; season with salt and pepper.
Arrange butter evenly over the top of the chicken mixture.
Bake in preheated oven until the rice is tender and the chicken is cooked through, 1 hour to 75 minutes
Cool 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
3 chicken breasts, cut into cubes
2 cups water
2 cups instant white rice
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of celery soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of mushroom soup
salt and ground black pepper to taste
½ cup butter, sliced into pats
Perfect Every Time Pizza or Calzone Dough
Mix together 1/2 cup lukewarm water and yeast in a small bowl
Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine 1/2 cup water, olive oil, honey, and salt in a large mixing bowl
Add 1 cup flour and mix well
Mix yeast mixture into flour mixture
Add remaining flour, 1 cup at a time, until dough is well combined.
Knead dough on a floured work surface until dough is soft, smooth, and elastic, about 8 minutes
Roll dough into 4 calzone shapes or 1 large pizza.
½ cup lukewarm water
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
½ cup water
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons honey
½ teaspoon salt
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
No-Rise Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Combine flour, sugar, yeast, and salt in a large bowl
Mix in warm water and oil until dough comes together.
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
Grease a 13"-by-9" glass baking dish with oil.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat
Add pasta and 2 tablespoons salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente, 7 to 9 minutes (pasta should still be slightly undercooked in the center)
Drain pasta; set aside.
Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon oil
Add sausage and cook, breaking into bite-size pieces, until browned and cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes
Transfer sausage to a medium bowl, leaving as much fat in skillet as possible.
In same skillet over medium heat, combine mushrooms and 1 tablespoon oil; season with 1/2 teaspoon salt
Cook, tossing occasionally, until browned, 5 to 6 minutes
Transfer mushrooms to bowl with sausage.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onion, garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 2 tablespoons oil, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened, 4 to 5 minutes
Stir in tomato sauce, diced tomatoes, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt
Remove 2 cups sauce and reserve
Fold bell peppers and cooked sausage, mushrooms, and reserved pasta into remaining sauce
Cook, stirring, until heated through, 1 to 2 minutes more.
Pour half of pasta mixture into prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle with 1 cup mozzarella
Top with remaining pasta mixture
Pour reserved 2 cups sauce over.
Cover pan with foil and bake until hot and bubbling around the edges, about 20 minutes
Remove foil, top with remaining 2 cups mozzarella, then pepperoni, and continue to bake until cheese is melted and pepperoni is browned, 15 to 20 minutes more.
4 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, divided, plus more for pan
12 oz. cavatappi pasta
2 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. kosher salt, divided
1 lb. Italian sausage, casings removed
8 oz. cremini mushrooms, stemmed and sliced
1 small yellow onion, chopped (about 1 1/2 c.)
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce
1 (14.5-oz.) can diced tomatoes
1 1/2 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. dried basil
1/4 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
1/2 green bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped into 1/2" pieces
3 c. shredded mozzarella, divided
1/3 c. sliced pepperoni (about 2 oz.)
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pizza Noodle Bake
Cook the noodles according to package directions
Meanwhile, in a large skillet, cook the beef, onion and green pepper over medium heat until beef is no longer pink, breaking the meat into crumbles; drain
Add pizza sauce and mushrooms; heat through.
Drain the noodles
In a greased 13x9-in
baking dish, layer half the noodles, half the beef mixture, 1/2 cup of each cheese and half the pepperoni
Repeat the layers
Cover and bake at 350° for 15-20 minutes or until heated through.
10 ounces uncooked egg noodles
1-1/2 pounds ground beef
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
1/4 cup chopped green pepper
1 jar (14 ounces) pizza sauce
1 can (4 ounces) mushroom stems and pieces, drained
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1 package (3-1/2 ounces) sliced pepperoni
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Sopapilla Cheesecake Pie
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth.
Unroll crescent roll dough, and use a rolling pin to shape each sheet into a 9x13-inch rectangle
Press one piece into the bottom of the prepared baking dish
Evenly spread cream cheese mixture on top, then cover with remaining piece of crescent dough.
Mash remaining 3/4 cup sugar, butter, and cinnamon with a fork until combined
Dot mixture over top of dough.
Bake in the preheated oven until crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown, about 30 minutes.
Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey
Cool completely in the pan for about 2 hours before cutting into 12 squares.
cooking spray
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract
2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls
½ cup butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup honey
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
The Cheesecake Factory Original Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475°F
Place a large pan filled with 1/2 inch water in oven.
Make crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs and cinnamon; add butter or margarine
Press crust onto bottom and 2/3 of the way up a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment
Wrap a large piece of foil around bottom of pan
Freeze until filling is prepared.
Make filling: Use an electric mixer to mix cream cheese, sugar, sour cream and vanilla
Blend until smooth and creamy
Scrape down sides of bowl
Whisk eggs in a bowl; add to cream cheese mixture
Blend just until eggs are incorporated.
Remove crust from freezer and pour in filling
Carefully place cheesecake into preheated water bath
Bake for 12 minutes; turn oven to 350°F and bake until top of cheesecake turns golden, 50 to 60 minutes
Remove cake to a wire rack to cool.
Make topping: Combine sour cream and sugar; spread over cake
Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours.
Crust:
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup unsalted butter or margarine, melted
FILLING:
4 (8 oz.) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups sugar
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
5 large eggs
TOPPING:
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
No-Bake Cheesecake
Crush graham crackers: Put graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag, and crush them with a rolling pin until very fine crumbs form.
Mix graham-cracker crumbs with sugar and butter: Pour crumbs into a medium bowl; stir in sugar
Add butter and stir until well combined.
Press crumb mixture into springform pan: Press the crumb mixture into a 9-inch springform pan, spreading it 1 1/2 to 2 inches up the side; press flat
Chill crust in freezer at least 10 minutes.
Make filling: Meanwhile, make the filling: Using an electric mixer set at medium-high speed, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in the condensed milk a little at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl, as necessary
Beat in the lemon juice and vanilla.
Add filling to crust, cover, and refrigerate: Pour the filling into the crust; smooth the top with a rubber spatula
Cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until firm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours.
Remove cheesecake from pan and serve: Unclasp sides of pan, and remove cheesecake.
2 packages (20 sheets) graham crackers
11 tablespoons (1 ⅜ sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 14-ounce can (1 ¼ cups) sweetened condensed milk
0.25 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Basque Cheesecake
Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 400°
Brush pan with unsalted butter, then line with 2 overlapping 16x12" sheets of parchment paper, making sure parchment comes at least 2" above top of pan on all sides
Because the parchment needs to be pleated and creased in some areas to fit in pan, you won’t end up with a clean, smooth outer edge to the cake; that’s okay! Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet.
Beat 2 lb
cream cheese, room temperature, and 1½ cups (300 g) sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium-low speed, scraping down sides of the bowl, until very smooth, no lumps remain, and sugar has dissolved, about 2 minutes
(You can also use a large bowl with a hand mixer on medium low-speed, but you may need to continue beating for a few extra minutes to dissolve sugar.)
Increase speed to medium and add 6 large eggs, one egg at a time, beating until each egg is incorporated, about 15 seconds, before adding the next
Scrape down sides of bowl, then reduce mixer speed to medium-low
Add 2 cups heavy cream, 1 tsp
Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp
Morton kosher salt, and 1 tsp
vanilla extract and beat until combined, about 30 seconds.
Turn off mixer and sift ⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour evenly over cream cheese mixture using a fine-mesh sieve
Beat on low speed until incorporated, about 15 seconds
Scrape down sides of the bowl (yet again) and continue to beat until batter is very smooth, homogenous, and silky, about 10 seconds.
Pour batter into prepared pan
Bake cheesecake until deeply golden brown on top and still very jiggly in the center, 60–65 minutes.
Let cool slightly (cake will collapse drastically as it cools), then unmold
Let cool completely
Carefully peel away parchment from sides of cheesecake
Slice into wedges and serve at room temperature, preferably with a glass of sherry alongside
Do Ahead: Basque cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead
Cover and chill
Let cheesecake sit at room temperature for several hours to remove chill before serving
Editor’s note: This Basque-style cheesecake was first printed online in January 2019 as “Basque Burnt Cheesecake.” Head this way for more of our favorite Easter desserts →
Unsalted butter (for pan)
2 lb. cream cheese, room temperature
1½ cups (300 g) sugar
6 large eggs
2 cups heavy cream
1 tsp. Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp. Morton kosher salt
1 tsp. vanilla extract
⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour
Sherry (for serving; optional)
A 10"-diameter springform pan
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Lemon-and-Italian-Cheese Pizza
Place a pizza stone on floor of gas oven (remove racks) or bottom rack of electric oven
Preheat oven to at least 500 degrees for 1 hour.
Meanwhile, arrange onion and lemon slices over dough, leaving a 1-inch border
Distribute cheeses evenly; top with rosemary
Season with pepper; drizzle with oil.
Switch oven to broiler setting
Align edge of peel with edge of stone
Tilt peel, jerking it gently to move pizza
When edge of pizza touches stone, quickly pull back peel to transfer pizza to stone
(Do not move pizza.) Broil until bubbles begin to form in crust, 3 to 4 minutes
Reduce temperature to 500 degrees, and bake until crust is crisp and golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes more
(If not using broiler, bake pizza 10 to 15 minutes total.) Remove pizza from oven using peel
Slice and serve.
3 ounces Piave cheese, shaved
2 ounces fontina cheese, shaved
1 round Chris Bianco's Pizza Dough
0.25 red onion, very thinly sliced
6 very thin slices lemon, seeds removed
1 tablespoon small sprigs fresh rosemary
Freshly ground pepper
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling
Best Classic Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, butter, granulated sugar, and salt until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until fragrant and edges start to darken in color, 12 to 15 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition to incorporate, then fold in sour cream and vanilla
Add flour and salt and beat until just combined
Pour mixture into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up the sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Cooking spray
9 graham crackers (about 1 sleeve), finely crushed
6 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c. granulated sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
Classic Cheesecake
Preheat oven and make crust: Preheat oven to 375°F
Make crust: Butter a 9-by-3-inch springform pan
In a food processor, pulse graham crackers until fine crumbs form
Add remaining crust ingredients and combine: Add melted butter, sugar, and salt, and pulse to combine.
Press crust into pan: Press crumb mixture into bottom and about 1 inch up side of pan.
Bake crust: Bake until set, 12 to 15 minutes; let cool on a wire rack
Reduce oven to 325°F.
Boil water and make filling: Set a kettle of water to boil
Using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese on medium until fluffy, scraping down side of bowl.
Add sugar: Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy.
Add lemon and salt: Beat in lemon zest and juice, and salt.
Add eggs: Beat in eggs, one at a time, scraping down side of bowl after each addition.
Add sour cream: Beat in sour cream.
Prepare pan, add filling, and place in water bath: Wrap bottom half of pan in foil
Pour in filling; place pan in a roasting pan
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform.
Bake: Bake until just set in center, about 1 3/4 hours
Remove pan from water bath; let cool 20 minutes.
Cool, then refrigerate: Run a paring knife around edge; let cool completely
Cover; chill overnight before serving.
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus room-temperature butter for pan
12 graham crackers (3-by-5 inch)
0.25 cup sugar
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
2.5 pounds bar cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest, plus 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
0.5 teaspoon coarse salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
Chocolate Pudding Pizza
Preheat oven to 375°
Prepare cookie mix dough according to package directions
Press into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Bake until set, about 15 minutes; cool.
Beat cream cheese until smooth
Spread over crust
In another bowl, beat milk and pudding mix on medium speed for 2 minutes
Spread over cream cheese layer
Refrigerate until set, about 20 minutes
Spread with whipped topping
Sprinkle with chips
Chill for 1-2 hours.
1 package (17-1/2 ounces) peanut butter cookie mix
1 carton (12 ounces) spreadable cream cheese, softened
1-3/4 cups cold whole milk
1 package (3.9 ounces) instant chocolate pudding mix
1 carton (8 ounces) frozen whipped topping, thawed
1/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350º and butter and flour two 9" cake pans
Prepare red velvet cake batter according to box instructions.
Divide batter among prepared cake pans and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes
Let cool slightly in cake pans, then invert onto a wire rack to cool completely
Using a serrated knife, level out tops of the cake so they're flat (save scraps for decorating!).
Make cheesecake layer: Line a 9" springform pan with parchment and spray with cooking spray
In a large bowl using a hand mixer or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and sugar until fluffy and combined, 3 minutes
Add eggs, one a time, until combined
Add sour cream, flour, vanilla, and salt and beat until combined.
Pour filling into prepared springform pan and bake until only slightly jiggly in the center, about 1 hour
Let cool slightly, then transfer to the freezer to cool completely and firm up before assembling.
Make cream cheese frosting: In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy, then add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat until combined.
Assemble cake: On a cake platter, place one red velvet cake
Top with cheesecake layer, pressing down firmly, then top with second red velvet cake.
Using an offset spatula, frost cake with cream cheese frosting.
Garnish with red velvet cake crumbs before serving.
Butter, for cake pans
All-purpose flour, for cake pans
1 box red velvet cake mix, plus ingredients called for on the box
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/3 c. sour cream
1 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
1/2 c. (1 stick) butter, softened
2 1/4 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Family-Favorite Cheesecake
In a small bowl, combine the cracker crumbs, sugar and cinnamon; stir in butter
Press onto the bottom and 2 in
up the sides of a greased 9-in
springform pan
Bake at 350° for 5 minutes
Cool on a wire rack
Reduce heat to 325°.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Add egg yolks; beat on low just until blended.
In a small bowl, beat egg whites until soft peaks form; fold into cream cheese mixture
Pour over crust.
Bake for 1 hour or until center is almost set
Cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes
Carefully run a knife around edge of pan to loosen; cool 1 hour longer
Refrigerate until completely cooled.
Combine the sour cream, sugar and vanilla; fold in whipped cream
Spread over cheesecake
Refrigerate overnight
Remove sides of pan.
2-1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs (about 40 squares)
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup butter, melted
FILLING:
3 packages (8 ounces each) cream cheese, softened
1-1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs, separated, room temperature
TOPPING:
1/2 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream, whipped
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Pizza dough
It’s easiest to make this in a standing mixer with a dough hook (otherwise mix it in a bowl and knead on your work surface)
Put the flour and salt in the bowl and mix the yeast into the water
It’s always a good idea to wait 5 mins before using the liquid to see if the yeast is working – little bits will start to rise to the top and you’ll know it’s active.
Turn on the motor and pour in the liquid
Keep the speed on medium-high and it should come together as a ball
If the bottom is still sticking, tip in 1-2 tbsp of flour
Knead for 5-7 mins until the dough is shiny and it springs back when you press your finger into it
(If kneading by hand, it will take you about 10 mins.) Try not to add too much flour if you can
This is a slightly sticky dough, but that keeps it light and it rises beautifully.
Use oiled hands to remove the dough from the hook and bowl
Oil another bowl and place the dough in it
Turn it around so that it’s lightly coated in the oil
Cover tightly with cling film and then a tea towel
Place in a draught-free area that’s warm and leave until the dough has doubled in size
If it’s a hot day, it should only take 2 to 3 hrs to rise, but it could take 4 hrs if it’s cold
(If you don’t plan to use the dough for a day or two, place it in the fridge straight away; take it out 3-4 hrs before using
Punch it down first and bring it together on a floured surface.)
Divide the dough into 2 pieces for big pizzas or 4 for plate-sized ones, then shape into balls (see Shaping the dough in tips, below) – dust them in flour as they will be sticky
Keep them covered with a tea towel or cling film, for 20-30 mins, while you prepare the toppings
You can also freeze them in sealed bags
Just thaw in the fridge on the day, then bring to room temperature 3 hrs before using.
To shape the dough: If you want to get air pockets and a light but crisp dough, then don’t use a rolling pin
It flattens and pops the air bubbles
(Two days in the fridge will produce the most air bubbles – take it out three to four hours before using.) If your dough is at room temperature, you can use your fingers to gently stretch the dough out
Once it’s about 16cm, place the disc over the tops of your hands (not palm side) and use them to stretch it further, up to about 25cm
You can start pressing out the other discs, then wait to do the final bit when you’re ready to cook
Once you’ve mastered stretching the dough out, you can experiment with other shapes: rectangles, rounds or squares all look authentic.
To cook the pizza: An outdoor gas barbecue is best for controlling the temperature, but charcoal will give your pizza a more authentic, smoky flavour
For gas, turn the flames down to medium-low so that the bottom of the pizza doesn't burn
When cooking on a charcoal barbecue, let the coals turn grey before you pop on the pizza.
Place the pizza on a floured baking sheet (with no edge) or a pizza peel – this is a flat pizza paddle with a long handle, which makes it easier to get the dough on and off the grill
The flour will provide the 'wheels' for it to slide onto the grill – don’t use oil as it sticks more and won’t transfer as well.
Make sure the grill is hot and the flames have died back if cooking on charcoal
Slide the dough onto the grill, close the lid (if your barbecue has one) and give it three to four minutes
The dough will puff up; it's ready when the bottom has light brown stripes
Use tongs to pull the dough off and turn it upside down.
Assemble the pizza of your choice – see 'Goes well with', right, for topping suggestions
Remember that less is more, as the dough will stay crisper and the toppings will cook better.
Place the pizza back on the grill, uncooked-side down, and shut the lid
Give it another three to four minutes, then remove when the cheese is melted and the toppings are hot.
500g '00' flour or plain flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp salt
½ tsp dried yeast (not fast-action)
300-350ml warm water
oil, for greasing
Air Fryer Pizza
Preheat the air fryer for 5 minutes at 380 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray the air fryer basket with olive oil spray or line with a parchment liner to avoid sticking.
Remove crust from the can, and cut in half
Shape each piece of dough into a circle and crimping up the edges to form a crust
Make sure it'll fit in your air fryer basket
Carefully transfer one pizza crust to the air fryer basket and spray lightly with olive oil spray
Prick the dough with a fork and precook for 3 minutes.
Spread 3 tablespoons pizza sauce onto the crust in the air fryer basket and sprinkle with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese
Top with 7 pepperoni slices and half of the onion slices
Sprinkle with basil and red pepper flakes, if using.
Cook until crust is golden brown and crispy and the cheese has melted, 7 to 9 minutes
Keep in mind that cooking times may vary depending on the brand and size of your air fryer, so check frequently to be sure nothing overcooks or burns
Repeat procedure with the second pizza crust
Serve hot.
olive oil cooking spray
1 (13.8 ounce) package refrigerated pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)
6 tablespoons pizza sauce, divided
10 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
14 slices pepperoni, divided
½ cup onion slices, divided (Optional)
sprinkle of dried basil and red pepper flakes (optional)
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Sopapilla Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375°
Grease a 9"-x-13" baking dish with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, sugar, eggs, sour cream, vanilla, and salt
Using a hand mixer, beat all ingredients together until smooth.
Press one sheet crescent dough into prepared baking dish, stretching to reach all edges of baking dish
If dough is perforated, pinch all perforations closed.
Spread cheesecake mixture in an even layer and top with another layer of crescent dough
Brush top with melted butter and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar.
Bake until crescent is golden and cooked through, 25 to 30 minutes.
Let cool and slice into squares.
Cooking spray
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1/2 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
2 (8-oz.) tubes refrigerated Crescent rolls
1 tbsp. melted butter
2 tbsp. cinnamon sugar
Enchilada Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
In a large skillet over medium heat, heat oil
Add onion and pepper and cook until soft, 5 minutes
Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more
Add beans, corn, chicken, and green chilis and cook until warmed through, 5 minutes
Reserve ½ cup enchilada sauce then pour remaining sauce into skillet, stirring to combine.
Spread reserved ½ cup enchilada sauce into a 9”-x-13” then layer 6 tortillas in pan, overlapping to cover the entire pan
Pour ⅓ of mixture over tortillas then top with about ⅓ of each cheese
Top with another layer of tortillas and repeat to make 2 more layers, finishing with cheese.
2 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 (15.5-oz.) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1 (15.25-oz.) can corn, drained
3 c. cooked, shredded chicken
1 (4.5-oz.) can diced green chilis
2 (10-oz.) cans enchilada sauce
18 corn tortillas
2 c. shredded cheddar
2 c. shredded Monterey jack
Sour cream, for garnish
Freshly chopped cilantro, for garnish
Diced avocado, for garnish
Triple-Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees
Assemble a 9-inch springform pan with the raised side of the bottom facing down.
In a food processor, pulse cookies until finely ground
Add butter, and pulse to moisten
Transfer to prepared pan, and press crumbs firmly and evenly into the bottom
Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet; bake 10 minutes, and set aside.
Wipe out bowl and blade of food processor
Add cream cheese, sugar, and salt; blend until smooth
With motor running, add eggs, then sour cream, and finally chocolate; blend filling until smooth, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Wrap bottom half of springform pan in foil
Pour in filling; place in a roasting pan
Place roasting pan in oven
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform pan
Bake just until set, 1 hour
Turn oven off, and let cheesecake sit 1 hour in oven, without opening (this helps prevent cracking).
Run a thin knife around the edge of the pan (this helps prevent cracking, too); leave in pan, and cool completely on wire rack
Cover loosely and refrigerate, at least 6 hours or up to overnight.
Prepare Chocolate Ganache
Unmold cheesecake
Spread ganache in center of cheesecake; let set before serving.
1 package (9 ounces) chocolate wafer cookies
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 bars (8 ounces each) cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
0.5 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
8 ounces semisweet chocolate, melted
Rich Chocolate Ganache , for topping
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Outdoor Pizza Oven Pizza Dough
Combine flour and yeast in the bowl of a food processor
Pulse 3 to 4 times until well-combined
With machine running, add water and continue to process until mixture forms rough ball and no dry flour remains, 10 to 20 seconds
Allow to rest for 20 minutes.
Add salt to top of dough and process until a mostly smooth ball of dough forms, 20 to 30 seconds
Dough temperature should register 75°F (24°C) on an instant-read thermometer when mixing is complete
If not, continue to mix in 10 second intervals until it reaches the desired dough temperature
Transfer dough ball to a lightly oiled medium bowl and knead once or twice by hand until smooth ball is formed
Cover bowl and let dough sit for 45 minutes.
Using lightly-moistened hands, knead dough in bowl until uniform in texture, 5 to 10 seconds
Cover and let sit at room temperature until puffy and not quite doubled in volume, 60 to 120 minutes.
Transfer dough to a lightly floured countertop and divide into four pieces of about 225g (8 ounces) each for 12-inch ovens, or three pieces of about 300g (10.5 ounces) each for 16-inch ovens
Form each portion into a smooth, round ball
Coat exterior of dough ball lightly with oil and place each in a 4- to 7-inch round, lidded plastic takeout container, or on a lightly-oiled tray, spaced at least 2 inches apart, covered loosely but completely
Refrigerate dough for at least 24 hours or up to 4 days (48 to 72 hours is ideal).
On the day you plan to bake pizzas, remove dough balls from refrigerator and allow to warm up, covered, 1 to 2 hours before baking
Exact timing depends upon ambient temperature; dough should reach at least 60°F (15.5°C) before stretching and baking.
535g (18.9 ounces; about 4 cups plus 3 tablespoons) high protein all-purpose flour, such as King Arthur (Baker’s percentage: 100%)
2g (0.07 ounce; 1/2 teaspoon) instant dry yeast, such as SAF (Baker’s percentage: 0.4%)
360g (12.7 ounces; about 1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon) water, at 40°F (4°C) (Baker’s percentage: 67%)
12g (0.4 ounce; 1 tablespoon) Diamond Crystal kosher salt (Baker’s percentage: 2%)
Extra-virgin olive oil for oiling proofing containers and dough balls
Squash Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place squash and onion in a large skillet over medium heat; pour in water
Cover, and cook until squash is tender, about 5 minutes
Drain well, and place in a large bowl.
Mix cracker crumbs and cheese together in a medium bowl
Stir half of the cracker mixture into the cooked squash and onions.
Mix eggs and milk together in a small bowl, then add to squash mixture.
Stir in 1/4 cup melted butter, and season with salt and pepper
Spread into the prepared baking dish
Sprinkle with remaining cracker mixture, and dot with 2 tablespoons butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until lightly browned, about 25 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
4 cups sliced yellow squash
½ cup chopped onion
¼ cup water, or more as needed
35 buttery round crackers, crushed
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
2 large eggs, beaten
¾ cup milk
¼ cup butter, melted
1 teaspoon salt
ground black pepper to taste
2 tablespoons butter
No-Rise Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Combine flour, sugar, yeast, and salt in a large bowl
Mix in warm water and oil until dough comes together.
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Make Crust: Stir together graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and sugar; press mixture into bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Make Cheesecake Filling: Beat cream cheese and granulated sugar at medium-low speed with an electric mixer 1 minute
Add eggs and next 6 ingredients (through food coloring), mixing on low speed just until fully combined
Pour batter into prepared crust.
Bake cheesecake: Bake at 325°F for 10 minutes; reduce heat to 300°F, and bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until center is firm
Run knife along outer edge of cheesecake
Turn oven off
Let cheesecake stand in oven 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake from oven; cool in pan on a wire rack 30 minutes
Cover and chill 8 hours.
Make Cream Cheese Topping: Beat 1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese and 1/4 cup butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until smooth; gradually add powdered sugar and vanilla, beating until smooth.
Assemble cheesecake: Spread evenly over top of cheesecake
Remove sides of springform pan
Garnish, if desired.
1 1/2 cups chocolate graham cracker crumbs
1/4 cup butter, melted
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
3 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
4 large eggs, lightly beaten
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whole buttermilk
2 tsp. vanilla extract
1 tsp. distilled white vinegar
2 (1-oz.) bottles red food coloring
1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/4 cup butter, softened
2 cups powdered sugar
1 tsp. vanilla extract
Fresh mint sprigs
Mamaw's Chicken and Rice Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease sides and bottom of a casserole dish.
Stir chicken, water, rice, cream of chicken soup, cream of celery soup, and cream of mushroom soup together in the prepared casserole dish; season with salt and pepper.
Arrange butter evenly over the top of the chicken mixture.
Bake in preheated oven until the rice is tender and the chicken is cooked through, 1 hour to 75 minutes
Cool 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
3 chicken breasts, cut into cubes
2 cups water
2 cups instant white rice
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of celery soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of mushroom soup
salt and ground black pepper to taste
½ cup butter, sliced into pats
Best Tuna Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rapid boil
Cook egg noodles at a boil until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes; drain.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
Mix noodles, condensed soup, 1 cup cheese, tuna, peas, mushrooms, and onion in a large bowl until well combined.
Transfer the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Top the mixture with crushed potato chip and remaining 1 cup of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly, about 15 to 20 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 (12 ounce) package egg noodles
2 (10.5 ounce) cans condensed cream of mushroom soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese, divided
2 (5 ounce) cans tuna, drained
1 cup frozen green peas
½ (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
¼ cup chopped onion
1 cup crushed potato chips
Easy Mexican Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-baking dish with cooking spray.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 8 to 10 minutes.
Stir in salsa, reduce heat, and simmer until liquid is absorbed, about 20 minutes
Stir in beans; cook until heated through.
Spread crushed tortilla chips over the bottom of the baking dish; spoon beef mixture on top
Spread sour cream over beef, then sprinkle olives, green onion, and tomatoes on top
Cover with Cheddar cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until hot and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
Serve and enjoy!
1 pound lean ground beef
2 cups salsa
1 (16 ounce) can chili beans, drained
3 cups tortilla chips, crushed
2 cups sour cream
1 (2 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
½ cup chopped green onion
½ cup chopped fresh tomato
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
Grandma's Hamburger Casserole
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes; drain and discard grease.
Mix tomato sauce, sugar, garlic salt, and salt into the ground beef; simmer until flavors blend, about 20 minutes
Remove from the heat and cover the skillet.
While the sauce is cooking, bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook egg noodles in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain.
While the egg noodles are cooking, preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish.
Mix sour cream, cream cheese, and onion together in a bowl.
Layer 1/2 of the egg noodles into the prepared casserole dish
Top with 1/2 of the sour cream mixture, then 1/2 of the ground beef mixture
Repeat layers once more
Sprinkle Cheddar cheese over top.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
2 (15 ounce) cans tomato sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar, or to taste
1 teaspoon garlic salt, or to taste
1 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1 (8 ounce) package egg noodles
1 cup sour cream
3 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 large white onion, finely diced
½ cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese, or more to taste
Million Dollar Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Stir cream of chicken soup, cottage cheese, sour cream, cream cheese, Creole seasoning, onion powder, and 1/2 teaspoon of the garlic powder in a medium bowl until well blended and smooth.
Fold in chicken and parsley until evenly coated.
Combine crackers, melted butter, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder in a medium bowl.
Spoon chicken mixture evenly into an 11x7-inch or 9-inch square baking dish
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella then top with cracker mixture.
Place on a foil-lined baking sheet and bake in the preheated oven until crackers are golden brown and edges are bubbly, about 35 minutes
Garnish with scallions, if desired.
1 (10.5 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
½ cup cottage cheese
½ cup sour cream
4 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
1 ½ teaspoons Creole seasoning
½ teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder, divided
5 cups shredded rotisserie chicken
1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley
30 buttery round crackers (such as Ritz), crushed
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 teaspoon sliced scallions, or to taste
Sloppy Joe Casserole
Preheat oven to 375°
In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat oil
Add beef; season with 1 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper
Cook, breaking up beef with a wooden spoon, until crumbled and no longer pink, 6 to 8 minutes
Using a slotted spoon, transfer beef to a plate
Pour off all but 1 tablespoon fat.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onions, bell peppers, and garlic, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are softened, 10 to 12 minutes; season with salt and pepper
Add ketchup and cook, stirring occasionally, until ketchup is reduced to a thick paste, 5 to 6 minutes
Add chili powder and mustard and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds
Add tomato sauce, broth, vinegar, Worcestershire, and brown sugar and cook, stirring, until combined
Add beef and a few dashes of hot sauce (if using).
Transfer to a 2-quart baking dish
Top with rolls cut sides down
Brush with butter and sprinkle with cheese.
Bake casserole until rolls are toasted and cheese is melted, 10 to 15 minutes
Sprinkle with parsley (if using).
1 tbsp. vegetable oil
1 lb. ground beef
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 medium yellow onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
1 red bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2/3 c. ketchup
1 tbsp. chili powder
1 tsp. dried mustard
1 (8-oz.) can tomato sauce
1 c. low-sodium beef or chicken broth
2 tbsp. apple cider vinegar
2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
2 tsp. dark brown sugar
Hot sauce (optional)
8 sweet Hawaiian slider rolls, halved crosswise
1 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1 c. shredded cheddar
Chopped fresh parsley, for serving (optional)
Awesome Broccoli-Cheese Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Whisk condensed soup, mayonnaise, egg, and onions together in a medium mixing bowl until combined.
Place frozen broccoli into a very large mixing bowl and break it up if necessary; add soup mixture and mix well to coat
Sprinkle with cheese and mix well; spread mixture into the prepared baking dish
Season with salt, pepper, and paprika.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and the casserole is golden brown on top, 45 minutes to 1 hour.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 cup mayonnaise
1 large egg, beaten
¼ cup chopped onion
3 (10 ounce) packages frozen chopped broccoli
8 ounces shredded sharp Cheddar cheese
salt and pepper to taste
1 dash paprika
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
Grandma's Hash Brown Casserole
Gather all ingredients
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix hash browns, Cheddar cheese, condensed soup, sour cream, 1/2 of the melted butter, onion, salt, and pepper in a bowl
Transfer mixture to a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Sprinkle cornflakes on top, then drizzle with remaining melted butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until sauce is bubbly and top is golden brown, 1 to 1 ½ hours.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (2 pound) package frozen hash brown potatoes, thawed
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
1 cup butter, melted, divided
½ cup chopped onion
½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 cup crushed cornflakes
Espresso Martini Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a food processor, pulse Oreos until fine crumbs form
Transfer to a large bowl
Add butter and salt and mix until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until darkened and fragrant, about 12 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a small pot over medium heat, heat cream and espresso powder, stirring frequently, until espresso is dissolved
Let cool.
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating to blend after each addition
Add cooled cream mixture, Kahlúa, and salt and beat until combined
Pour filling into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Topping
In a large bowl, using handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream, confectioners’ sugar, and espresso powder until medium peaks form.
Spread whipped cream over cheesecake
Cover one half of the top of cheesecake with parchment and dust exposed half with cocoa powder
Arrange a few espresso beans on undusted side.
Cooking spray
24 Oreos
4 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
Pinch of kosher salt
1/3 c. heavy cream
1 tbsp. instant espresso
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. Kahlúa
1/2 tsp. kosher salt
3/4 c. heavy cream
2 tbsp. confectioners' sugar
1/2 tsp. instant espresso
Unsweetened cocoa powder, for dusting
Espresso beans, for topping
Chicken Pizza
Let dough rest, covered, at room temperature for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 450°F.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add 1 1/2 teaspoons oil, chicken, and sausage; sauté 5 minutes
Remove mixture from pan
Add 1 tablespoon oil to pan; swirl
Add onion, mushrooms and garlic; sauté 5 minutes, stirring constantly.
Punch dough down
Sprinkle a baking sheet with cornmeal
Roll dough out to a 14-inch circle on baking sheet
Brush dough with 1 tablespoon oil; sprinkle with 2 ounces cheese
Arrange chicken mixture, vegetable mixture and bell pepper over cheese, leaving a 1/4-inch border
Top with remaining cheese and crushed red pepper
Bake at 450°F for 20 minutes or until golden
Sprinkle with herbs
Cut into slices.
1 (12-ounce) portion fresh pizza dough
2.5 tablespoons olive oil, divided
2 (6-ounce) skinless, boneless chicken breast halves, cubed
1 (4-ounce) link sweet Italian sausage, casing removed
0.25 cup vertically sliced onion
4 ounces cremini mushrooms, sliced
1 tablespoon chopped fresh garlic
2 teaspoons cornmeal
4 ounces fontina cheese, shredded
1 red bell pepper, seeded and sliced
0.75 teaspoon crushed red pepper
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme
Beef stew
Heat oven to 160C/140C fan/gas 3 and put the kettle on.
Put 2 thickly sliced celery sticks, 1 chopped onion, 2 chunkily sliced carrots, 5 bay leaves and 1 whole thyme sprig in a flameproof casserole dish with 1 tbsp vegetable oil and 1 tbsp butter.
Soften for 10 mins, then stir in 2 tbsp plain flour until it doesn’t look dusty anymore, followed by 2 tbsp tomato purée, 2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce and 2 crumbled beef stock cubes.
Gradually stir in 600ml hot water, then tip in 850g stewing beef and bring to a gentle simmer.
Cover and put in the oven for 2hrs 30 mins, then uncover and cook for 30mins – 1hr more until the meat is really tender and the sauce is thickened.
Garnish with the picked leaves of the remaining thyme sprig.
2 celery sticks, thickly sliced
1 onion, chopped
2 really big carrots, halved lengthways then very chunkily sliced
5 bay leaves
2 thyme sprigs, 1 whole and 1 leaves picked
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp butter
2 tbsp plain flour
2 tbsp tomato purée
2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
2 beef stock cubes, crumbled
850g stewing beef (featherblade or brisket works nicely), cut into nice large chunks
King Ranch Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat
Saute onion and bell peppers in the hot oil until warmed through, about 2 minutes
Transfer to a large bowl.
Add both cans of condensed soup, diced tomatoes with chile peppers, chicken broth, sour cream, cumin, ancho chile powder, oregano, and chipotle chile powder; mix until sauce is well-combined.
Spread a few tablespoons of sauce in the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish
Layer with 1/2 of the chicken, 1/2 of the sauce, 1/2 of the Cheddar cheese, and 1/2 of the tortillas.
Spread the remaining chicken over the tortillas
Spread all but 1/2 cup of the remaining sauce over the chicken, then top with another 1/3 of the Cheddar, and the remaining tortillas
Spread the remaining 1/2 cup over top, and sprinkle with the remaining Cheddar.
Bake casserole in the preheated oven until bubbling, about 40 minutes.
Turn on the broiler and broil until the top is golden, 2 to 3 more minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 medium white onion, diced
1 medium red bell pepper, diced
1 medium green bell pepper, diced
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers (such as RO*TEL®)
1 cup chicken broth
2 tablespoons sour cream
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon ancho chile powder
½ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon chipotle chile powder
1 (3 pound) cooked chicken, torn into shreds or cut into chunks
1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese
10 (6 inch) corn tortillas, cut into quarters
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Easy French Toast Casserole
Gather all ingredients and grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Make the French toast: Stir brown sugar and butter together in a saucepan over medium-low heat until butter is melted and sugar has dissolved, 2 to 4 minutes
Pour butter-brown sugar mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Scatter French bread pieces over top in a 1 1/2- to 2-inch layer.
Whisk milk, eggs, and vanilla together in a bowl until well combined
Pour over bread pieces, then press bread down with a spatula so the bread absorbs the liquid
Cover the dish with plastic wrap and refrigerate, 8 hours to overnight.
When ready to bake, remove French toast from the refrigerator and discard plastic wrap
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
Make topping: Mix brown sugar and cinnamon together in a small bowl
Sprinkle over the French toast.
Bake in the preheated oven until casserole is browned and bubbling, about 30 minutes, covering with aluminum foil at any point if the top is browning too much.
To serve, cut into squares and invert onto serving plates.
1 cup brown sugar
½ cup unsalted butter
1 (8 ounce) loaf crusty French bread, cut into bite-sized pieces, or more as needed
2 cups milk
6 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 tablespoon brown sugar, or to taste
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon, or to taste
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Casserole recipes

Casserole recipes
Ancient Roman Cheesecake (Savillum)
Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Pour some water into a small, oven proof bowl, and place into the oven
Arrange the bay leaves over the bottom of the springform pan to cover.
Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl, then mix in ricotta cheese, honey, orange zest, and lemon juice
Sprinkle in the flour, and stir until evenly combined
Gently pour the batter over the bay leaves, being careful not to disturb them too much.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 35 to 40 minutes
Run the tip of a paring knife around the edges of the pan, and release from the springform pan
Invert onto a serving plate, and serve warm or chilled.
15 bay leaves
3 eggs
8 ounces ricotta cheese
½ cup honey
1 teaspoon grated orange zest
1 teaspoon lemon juice
½ cup all-purpose flour
Chèvre Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper.
Stir gingersnap crumbs and melted margarine in a bowl until well combined
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan and place in the freezer.
Beat chèvre and sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition
Mix in coconut milk
Mix in coconut yogurt, flour, and vanilla just until incorporated
Pour batter into chilled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off, keep the door closed, and allow cheesecake to cool inside for at least 2 hours
Refrigerate for an additional 4 to 6 hours before serving.
7 ounces gluten-free gingersnap cookies, finely crushed
¼ cup margarine, melted
2 pounds chevre (soft goat cheese) at room temperature
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup coconut milk
8 ounces cultured coconut milk (coconut milk yogurt)
¼ cup gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 tablespoon gluten-free vanilla extract
Lucinda's New York-Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven and prepare pan, Preheat oven to 375°F with rack in lower third of oven
Butter bottom and sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Line sides of pan with 4-inch-high strips of parchment and butter parchment.
Combine graham crackers and sugar for crust: In a food processor, pulse graham crackers with salt and sugar to fine crumbs.
Add butter: Add butter and pulse until fully incorporated.
Bake and cool crust: Press evenly into bottom of prepared springform pan and bake until crust is golden brown and set, 15 minutes
Remove from oven and transfer to wire rack to cool 10 minutes.
Mix cheesecake filling: In a large stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese, butter, and sour cream with sugar until light and smooth.
Add eggs, yolks, zest, and vanilla: Beat in eggs one at a time until fully incorporated
Beat in remaining egg yolks, zest, and vanilla extract.
Line pan with foil and parchment: Crisscross two long pieces of foil and place a piece of parchment on top.
Wrap exterior of pan in foil: Place springform in center of foil and wrap foil tightly around bottom and sides of pan.
Place pan in water bath: transfer to oven and bake: Transfer to a roasting pan, pour filling into springform pan, and smooth the top
Pour boiling water into roasting pan to come halfway up the sides of the springform pan and carefully transfer to oven
Bake for 1 hour until top of cheesecake is golden brown, edges are set, and center jiggles slightly.
Remove from water bath and foil; chill: Lift cheesecake from water bath, remove foil and parchment from outside of springform, and chill cheesecake in refrigerator for at least 8 hours.
Slice the cheesecake and serve: To serve, remove side of springform pan and parchment strips
Cut cheesecake with a long, thin-bladed knife.
4 ounces graham crackers, broken into pieces
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
0.333 cup sugar
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2.5 pounds cream cheese (five 8-ounce packages), room temperature
4 ounces unsalted butter, room temperature
8 ounces sour cream, room temperature
1.75 cups granulated sugar
5 large eggs, plus 2 egg yolks
Zest of 1 lemon
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Marbled Pumpkin Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix together the crushed gingersnap cookies, pecans, and butter
Press into the bottom, and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake crust 10 minutes in the preheated oven
Set aside to cool.
In a medium bowl, mix together the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, and vanilla just until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time, blending well after each
Set aside 1 cup of the mixture
Blend 1/4 cup sugar, pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg into the remaining mixture.
Spread the pumpkin flavored batter into the crust, and drop the plain batter by spoonfuls onto the top
Swirl with a knife to create a marbled effect.
Bake 55 minutes in the preheated oven, or until filling is set
Run a knife around the edge of the pan
Allow to cool before removing pan rim
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed gingersnap cookies
½ cup finely chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup canned pumpkin
¾ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
Southwestern Casserole
Cook macaroni according to package directions
Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, cook beef and onion over medium heat until meat is no longer pink, breaking it into crumbles
Add garlic; cook 1 minute longer
Drain
Stir in next 8 ingredients
Bring to a boil
Reduce heat; simmer, uncovered, for 10 minutes
Drain macaroni; stir into beef mixture.
Preheat oven to 375°
Transfer macaroni mixture to 2 greased 2-qt
baking dishes
Top with cheese and jalapenos
Cover and bake for 30 minutes
Uncover; bake until bubbly and heated through, about 10 minutes longer
Serve 1 casserole
Cool the second; cover and freeze up to 3 months.
2 cups (8 ounces) uncooked elbow macaroni
2 pounds ground beef
1 large onion, chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 cans (14-1/2 ounces each) diced tomatoes, undrained
1 can (16 ounces) kidney beans, rinsed and drained
1 can (6 ounces) tomato paste
1 can (4 ounces) chopped green chiles, drained
1-1/2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon pepper
2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese
2 jalapeno peppers, seeded and chopped
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Very, Very, Very Good Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease and flour a 9 inch springform pan.
Using an electric mixer, beat the butter, cream cheese and sugar until light and fluffy
Beat in the eggs, one at a time, until blended
Stir in the heavy cream, cornstarch and vanilla.
Wrap the bottom of the springform pan with aluminum foil
Line a roasting pan with a damp kitchen towel
Place cheesecake pan on towel, inside roasting pan, and place roasting pan on oven rack
Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the cheesecake pan
Bake for 60 minutes, or until center of the cheesecake is just firm
Cool at room temperature for 1 hour
Refrigerate until set before removing from pan.
1 cup butter, room temperature
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs, room temperature
2 cups heavy cream
1 ½ tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Yummy Sweet Potato Casserole
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Prepare sweet potatoes: Put sweet potatoes in a medium saucepan and cover with water
Cook over medium-high heat until tender, 10 to 15 minutes
Drain and transfer to a large bowl.
Mash drained sweet potatoes with a fork
Add eggs; mix until well combined
Add sugar, milk, butter, vanilla, and salt; mix until smooth
Transfer to a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Make topping: Mix brown sugar and flour together in a medium bowl
Cut in butter with a pastry cutter until mixture is coarse and looks like peas; don't overmix
Stir in pecans
Sprinkle topping over sweet potato mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until topping is lightly browned, about 30 minutes.
Enjoy!
4 cups peeled, cubed sweet potatoes
2 large eggs, beaten
½ cup white sugar
½ cup milk
4 tablespoons butter, softened
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup packed brown sugar
⅓ cup all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons butter, softened
½ cup chopped pecans
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Zucchini Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place zucchini into a colander and sprinkle with salt; let drain for 15 minutes, then squeeze out the moisture.
Combine zucchini, 1 cup mozzarella, and 1/2 cup Monterey Jack in a large bowl
Mix in Parmesan and eggs until well combined
Press into the prepared baking dish.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add ground beef and onion to the hot skillet; cook and stir until beef is crumbly, evenly browned, and no longer pink
Drain and discard any excess grease
Stir in tomato sauce and Italian seasoning.
Remove crust from the oven and spoon sauce mixture over top
Scatter bell pepper, mushrooms, black olives, and remaining mozzarella and Monterey Jack over sauce.
Return to the oven and bake until heated through, about 20 minutes
Let sit for 5 minutes before slicing into six pieces and serving.
4 cups shredded unpeeled zucchini
½ teaspoon salt
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese, divided
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 pound ground beef
½ cup chopped onion
1 (15 ounce) can Italian-style tomato sauce
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
1 green bell pepper, chopped
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms
½ cup sliced black olives
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Perfect Every Time Pizza or Calzone Dough
Mix together 1/2 cup lukewarm water and yeast in a small bowl
Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine 1/2 cup water, olive oil, honey, and salt in a large mixing bowl
Add 1 cup flour and mix well
Mix yeast mixture into flour mixture
Add remaining flour, 1 cup at a time, until dough is well combined.
Knead dough on a floured work surface until dough is soft, smooth, and elastic, about 8 minutes
Roll dough into 4 calzone shapes or 1 large pizza.
½ cup lukewarm water
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
½ cup water
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons honey
½ teaspoon salt
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Chocolate Cookie Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Combine cookie crumbs, brown sugar, melted butter, and cinnamon in a medium bowl; firmly press mixture evenly onto the bottom and 1 inch up the sides of a 10-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 5 minutes; set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Gradually mix in 1 1/4 cups sugar, heavy whipping cream, flour, and 1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat in eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition
Pour 1/3 of the batter into the prepared pan
Top with cookie pieces; pour in remaining batter.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove cake from the oven.
Combine sour cream, remaining 1/4 cup sugar, and remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla; spread evenly on cheesecake
Continue baking for 7 minutes
Turn oven off, leaving cheesecake in for an additional 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake and let cool completely on a wire rack.
Make the chocolate topping: Combine chocolate chips and heavy whipping cream in a saucepan; stir over low heat until chocolate melts, then stir in vanilla
Pour mixture over cheesecake while still warm.
Refrigerate before serving, at least 8 hours or overnight
Remove about 1/2 hour to 1 hour before serving and remove the ring from the springform pan.
2 cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
¼ cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar, divided
⅓ cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
16 ounces sour cream
1 ½ cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Fruit Pizza with Marshmallow Fluff
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Smooth refrigerated sugar cookie dough into an approximately 1/4-inch-thick layer onto an ungreased baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until edges are lightly browned and center is no longer doughy, about 10 minutes.
Blend marshmallow creme and cream cheese in a medium bowl
Spread mixture over crust
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
1 (18 ounce) package refrigerated sugar cookie dough
1 (7 ounce) jar marshmallow creme
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Homemade Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Make crust: Combine graham cracker crumbs, walnuts, and cinnamon sugar in the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of the pan and 1 to 2 inches up the sides
Place in the freezer to set up.
While crust chills, make filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric hand mixer until combined
Add heavy cream slowly while beating on low speed; mix until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating on low speed until combined
Remove crust from the freezer and pour in filling.
Bake in the preheated oven until center appears almost set when gently shaken, 35 to 45 minutes
Remove cheesecake carefully from the oven and place on a wire rack to cool, about 15 minutes.
Slide a butter knife around the outer edge to separate cheesecake from the pan
Let cool to room temperature, about 30 minutes
Unclip the side of the pan and remove the ring
Let cool for another 30 minutes; chill in the refrigerator at least 4 hours to overnight before serving.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup finely ground walnuts
1 tablespoon cinnamon sugar
½ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
3 large eggs, slightly beaten
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Very, Very, Very Good Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease and flour a 9 inch springform pan.
Using an electric mixer, beat the butter, cream cheese and sugar until light and fluffy
Beat in the eggs, one at a time, until blended
Stir in the heavy cream, cornstarch and vanilla.
Wrap the bottom of the springform pan with aluminum foil
Line a roasting pan with a damp kitchen towel
Place cheesecake pan on towel, inside roasting pan, and place roasting pan on oven rack
Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the cheesecake pan
Bake for 60 minutes, or until center of the cheesecake is just firm
Cool at room temperature for 1 hour
Refrigerate until set before removing from pan.
1 cup butter, room temperature
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs, room temperature
2 cups heavy cream
1 ½ tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Keto Chicken Crust Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Mix ground chicken, mozzarella, Parmesan, garlic, Italian seasoning, salt, and pepper together in a large bowl with your hands until well combined
Fold in basil.
Place chicken mixture between two pieces of parchment paper
Gently press on the top piece of parchment and spread mixture into a circle or rectangle with a thickness of 1/4 to 1/2 inch
Remove and discard the top piece of parchment paper.
Bake in the preheated oven until starting to brown on the edges, 35 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground chicken
½ cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
¼ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon pepper
1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil
Garden Veggie Pizza Squares
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Roll out crescent rolls onto a large nonstick baking sheet
Stretch and flatten to form a single rectangular shape on the baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 11 to 13 minutes
Allow to cool.
Mix cream cheese with 1/2 of the ranch dressing mix in a medium bowl; add more dressing mix to taste
Spread mixture over cooled crust.
Arrange carrots, bell peppers, broccoli, and green onions on top
Chill in the refrigerator for about 1 hour
Cut into 48 bite-sized squares to serve.
1 (8 ounce) package refrigerated crescent rolls
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (1 ounce) package Ranch-style dressing mix
2 carrots, finely chopped
½ cup chopped red bell peppers
½ cup chopped green bell pepper
½ cup fresh broccoli, chopped
½ cup chopped green onions
Zucchini Pizza Bites
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread zucchini slices in 1 layer on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until zucchini is tender, about 15 minutes.
Spoon pizza sauce over each zucchini slice and top with pepperoni and mozzarella cheese
Sprinkle herbs over each.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 5 minutes more.
2 zucchini, sliced into 1/4-inch thick rounds
1/4 cup pizza sauce, or more to taste
20 slices pepperoni, or more to taste
1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or as needed
Italian seasoning, dried parsley, or oregano for sprinkling (Optional)
Mary's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, 1/4 cup sugar and margarine until well blended 
Press mixture into a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese with sugar until smooth
In a separate bowl, combine cream, flour, eggs, lemon juice and vanilla
Beat together, and then pour into cream cheese mixture
Mix well
Pour filling into prepared graham cracker crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 65 minutes
Turn off oven, and cool cake in oven for 30 minutes
Prop door open and cool in oven for an additional 30 minutes
Remove from oven and cool completely
Refrigerate for as long as possible before serving.
2 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup white sugar
½ cup margarine, softened
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
1 pint heavy cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
7 eggs
2 teaspoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
New York Italian Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Move an oven rack to the middle of the oven.
Beat the cream cheese, ricotta cheese, and sugar in a large mixing bowl with an electric mixer until well combined
Beat in the eggs, one at a time
Add the butter, flour, cornstarch, and vanilla extract; mix until well combined
Fold in the sour cream and lemon juice
Pour the mixture into an ungreased 10-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake in the oven for 2 more hours
Remove from oven and let cool completely
Run a thin spatula around the edge of the cheesecake before springing open the pan to remove
Serve at room temperature or cold; refrigerate leftovers.
1 pound cream cheese, softened
1 pound ricotta cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
¼ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
2 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sour cream
2 tablespoons lemon juice (Optional)
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
Mushroom-Prosciutto Pizza
Preheat oven to 450°.
Heat a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat
Coat pan with cooking spray
Add mushrooms and shallots to pan; sauté 7 minutes or until mushrooms are tender
Add garlic and thyme; sauté 1 minute
Stir in vinegar; remove from heat.
Place crust on the bottom rack of oven
Bake at 450° for 4 minutes.
Place the crust on a baking sheet
Spread mushroom mixture evenly over crust; sprinkle evenly with prosciutto and fontina cheese
Bake at 450° for 6 minutes or until cheese melts.
Tips: For a crisp crust, bake the pizza crust on the lowest rack for a few minutes before adding the toppings
Presliced button mushrooms can substitute for the creminis.
Cooking spray
8 ounces sliced cremini mushrooms
¼ cup finely chopped shallots
1 garlic clove, minced
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme
2 teaspoons sherry vinegar
1 (10-ounce) Italian cheese-flavored thin pizza crust (such as Boboli)
2 ounces prosciutto, cut into thin strips
⅓ cup (about 1 1/2 ounces) shredded fontina cheese
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Eric's Best New York Style Cheesecake
Bring all ingredients to room temperature
Place oven shelf in the center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Wrap the outside of a 9 inch springform pan with foil
Generously butter the inside of the pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth
Mix in sugar and cornstarch
Blend in sour cream and whipping cream
Add amaretto and vanilla
Stir in eggs and egg yolk one at a time, mixing thoroughly between each addition
Pour batter into prepared pan.
Pour mixture into prepared springform pan
Place pan in another pan at least one inch wider than cake pan and add warm water to the outer pan to create a water bath for the cake (this prevents cracks in your cheesecake)
Bake on the center rack of oven for 70 minutes.
Turn oven off and allow to cool with oven door open for one hour
Then remove cake from water bath and chill at least 3 hours before removing from springform pan.
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 ½ cups sour cream
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 ¾ cups white sugar
⅛ cup cornstarch
1 fluid ounce amaretto liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 eggs
1 egg yolks
Valentino's Pizza Crust
Stir water, sugar and yeast together until dissolved
Add the olive oil and the salt
Stir in the flour until well blended
Let dough rest for 10 minutes.
Pat dough into pan or on to a pizza stone using fingers dipped in olive oil
If desired sprinkle basil, thyme or other seasonings on crust
Top with your favorite pizza toppings and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in a preheated 425 degree oven.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
Ladyfinger Cheesecake
Place ladyfingers on the bottom and around the edge of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a medium bowl, whip cream until peaks form.
In a large bowl, beat together the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Gently fold in the whipped cream.
Spoon 1/2 of cream cheese mixture into springform pan; cover with a layer of lady fingers and add remaining cream cheese mixture.
Layer remaining ladyfingers and top with fruit pie filling
Chill before serving.
3 (3 ounce) packages ladyfingers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup white sugar
1 pint heavy whipping cream
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
White Chocolate Blueberry Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C)
Make the crust: In a food processor, blend together the graham cracker crumbs, almonds and sugar until the almonds are ground fine
Pour in the melted butter and caramel while processing, until mixture is combined
Press the mixture onto the bottom, and half way up the side of a 10 inch springform pan.
Make the filling: In a metal bowl over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the white chocolate, stirring until smooth
Remove from heat and set aside
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese and 3/4 cup sugar until smooth
Beat in the eggs and the egg yolks, one at a time
Beat in the flour and the vanilla and blend in the melted white chocolate slowly, beating until the filling is well combined
Pour filling into crust.
Bake in the middle of preheated oven for 1 hour
Then turn off the heat, and crack the oven door an inch, letting the cheesecake cool in the oven to room temperature
Cover loosely and refrigerate overnight before removing from pan.
Make the topping: In a saucepan, combine 1/2 cup sugar and cornstarch
Stir in water and blueberries
Bring to a boil, then simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally
Press through a fine sieve
Stir in lemon juice, allow to cool, and store in a glass jar.
2 cups crushed graham crackers
1 cup slivered almonds
½ cup white sugar
¼ cup clarified butter, melted
2 tablespoons caramel topping
1 pound white chocolate, chopped
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
2 egg yolks
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
¼ cup water
1 pint fresh blueberries
2 teaspoons lemon juice
Key Lime Cheesecake
Combine graham cracker crumbs with butter
Press into the bottom and partially up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan; refrigerate while you prepare the filling.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Fill a shallow pan half full of hot water and place on the lower rack to minimize cracking.
To make the filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, lime zest, and cornstarch in a large bowl with an electric mixer until smooth and fluffy
Beat in eggs one at a time, blending just until smooth
Add Key lime juice with mixer on low
Finish mixing by hand
Do not overbeat, or the cake will crack during baking
Pour batter into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 55 to 65 minutes, or until set.
Turn the oven off, and let cheesecake stand in the oven for 30 minutes with the door open at least 4 inches
Remove from oven.
Refrigerate cheesecake 8 hours to overnight, and up to 3 days.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons butter, melted
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
1 tablespoon grated lime zest
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large eggs
⅔ cup key lime juice
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Swampland Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix the graham crackers, pecans, and 1/3 cup of sugar in a bowl, and mash the softened margarine into the crumbs until thoroughly combined
Press the crumb mixture into the bottom of a 10-inch springform pan
In a bowl, beat the cream cheese, 2 cups of sugar, eggs, and lemon juice together with an electric mixer set on medium speed until fluffy and well blended; spoon the mixture on top of the crumbs.
Bake in the preheated oven until set, about 1 hour and 10 minutes; remove from oven, and let cool for 30 minutes
Mix the sour cream, 1/2 cup of sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl; top the cheesecake with the sour cream mixture
Return to oven, and bake 10 more minutes
Allow to chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours to set.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup chopped pecans
⅓ cup white sugar
6 tablespoons margarine, softened
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
2 cups white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Air Fryer Pizza
Preheat the air fryer for 5 minutes at 380 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray the air fryer basket with olive oil spray or line with a parchment liner to avoid sticking.
Remove crust from the can, and cut in half
Shape each piece of dough into a circle and crimping up the edges to form a crust
Make sure it'll fit in your air fryer basket
Carefully transfer one pizza crust to the air fryer basket and spray lightly with olive oil spray
Prick the dough with a fork and precook for 3 minutes.
Spread 3 tablespoons pizza sauce onto the crust in the air fryer basket and sprinkle with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese
Top with 7 pepperoni slices and half of the onion slices
Sprinkle with basil and red pepper flakes, if using.
Cook until crust is golden brown and crispy and the cheese has melted, 7 to 9 minutes
Keep in mind that cooking times may vary depending on the brand and size of your air fryer, so check frequently to be sure nothing overcooks or burns
Repeat procedure with the second pizza crust
Serve hot.
olive oil cooking spray
1 (13.8 ounce) package refrigerated pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)
6 tablespoons pizza sauce, divided
10 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
14 slices pepperoni, divided
½ cup onion slices, divided (Optional)
sprinkle of dried basil and red pepper flakes (optional)
Chocolate Cappuccino Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter one 9 or 10 inch springform pan.
Combine the chocolate wafer crumbs, softened butter, 2 tablespoons white sugar, and the cinnamon
Mix well and press mixture into the buttered springform pan, set aside.
In a medium sized bowl beat the softened cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add 1 cup white sugar mixing until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time
Beat at low speed until very smooth.
Melt the 8 ounces semisweet chocolate with 2 tablespoons whipping cream in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth.
Add chocolate mixture to cream cheese mixture and blend well
Stir in sour cream, salt, coffee, 1/4 cup coffee liqueur, and vanilla; beat until smooth
Pour mixture into prepared pan.
Bake in the center of oven at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 45 minutes
Center will be soft but will firm up when chilled
Do not over bake
Leave cake in oven with the heat turned off and the door ajar for 45 minutes
Remove cake from oven and chill for 12 hours
Just before serving top cake with mounds of flavored whipped cream and garnish with chocolate leaves
Yields 16 servings.
To Make Flavored Whipped Cream: Beat whipping cream until soft peaks form, then beat in confectioner's sugar and 2 tablespoons coffee liqueur.
To Make Chocolate Leaves: Melt 1 ounce semisweet chocolate in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth
Brush real non-toxic plant leaves (such as orange leaves) on one side with melted chocolate
Freeze until firm and then peel off leaves
Freeze chocolate leaves until needed.
1 cup chocolate cookie crumbs
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
8 (1 ounce) squares semisweet chocolate
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 cup sour cream
¼ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons instant coffee granules dissolved in 1/4 cup hot water
¼ cup coffee flavored liqueur
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons coffee-flavored liqueur
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Reuben Pizza
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Grease a large pizza pan.
On a lightly floured surface, roll bread dough out into a large circle about 18-inches in diameter; transfer to the prepared pizza pan
Build up the edges, and prick the center all over with a fork so it doesn't form a dome when baking.
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden.
Spread 1/2 of the salad dressing over hot crust
Sprinkle with 1/2 of the Swiss cheese
Arrange corned beef on top of cheese, then drizzle with remaining salad dressing
Top with sauerkraut and remaining Swiss cheese
Sprinkle with caraway seed.
Bake for another 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until cheese melts and toppings are heated through
Sprinkle with chopped pickle
Let stand for 5 minutes before slicing.
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen whole wheat bread dough, thawed
½ cup thousand island dressing
2 cups shredded Swiss cheese
6 ounces deli sliced corned beef, cut into strips
1 cup sauerkraut - rinsed and drained
½ teaspoon caraway seed
¼ cup chopped dill pickles (Optional)
Vanilla Bean Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C), and lightly butter a 10 inch springform pan.
Place the sandwich cookies into a plastic bag, and crush with a rolling pin
Pour the crumbs into a bowl, and mix with the scraped seeds of 1 vanilla bean
Drizzle the crumbs with melted butter and stir to combine
Press the crumb mixture firmly into the bottom and up the sides of the springform pan, and set aside.
Place the softened cream cheese and sugar into the work bowl of an electric mixer, and beat for about 3 minutes on Medium speed, until the mixture is smooth
Beat in the eggs one at a time, incorporating each egg before adding the next one
Add the scraped seeds of 2 vanilla beans, the vanilla extract, sour cream, and heavy cream, and beat on Medium-High speed for about 1 minute, until the mixture is blended and smooth.
Pour the mixture into the cookie crumb crust, leaving about 2 inches of space from the top of the pan for the cake to expand as it bakes.
Place a baking dish onto the bottom rack of the preheated oven, and fill it halfway with boiling water
Place the cheesecake onto the middle rack, above the pan of boiling water, and bake until a small knife inserted into the middle of the cheesecake comes out clean, about 1 hour and 20 minutes.
Turn the oven off and let the cheesecake cool down inside the oven for 1 hour
Cover the cheesecake with plastic wrap, then aluminum foil, and refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight before serving.
1 (18 ounce) package vanilla sandwich cookies (such as Oreo Golden Original Sandwich Cookies®)
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise and seeds scraped
¼ cup butter, melted
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise and seeds scraped
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
¾ cup sour cream
½ cup heavy cream
Naan Bread Margherita Pizza with Prosciutto
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil.
Place naan breads on the prepared baking sheet; brush each with olive oil
Sprinkle green onion and garlic over each naan
Arrange 4 slices mozzarella cheese onto each naan; top with tomato slices
Season tomatoes with salt and pepper
Top tomato layers with prosciutto, basil, and Parmesan cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until pizza is crispy on the edges and cheese is melted, about 8 minutes
Turn on the oven's broiler and broil until cheese is lightly browned and bubbling, about 2 minutes.
2 naan breads
2 teaspoons olive oil, or as needed
1 green onion, sliced
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
8 slices mozzarella cheese
1 large roma tomato, thinly sliced
salt and ground black pepper to taste
1 slice prosciutto, sliced
6 leaves fresh basil, roughly chopped
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
Warm Fudge-Filled Cheesecake
Beat butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy; add 1/3 cup sugar, beating well
Gradually add flour, beating at low speed until blended
Stir in 1 teaspoon vanilla and pistachios
Press into bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake at 350° for 12 to 15 minutes or until golden
Cool on a wire rack.
Beat cream cheese at medium speed with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1 1/2 cups sugar, beating well
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating just until yellow disappears
Stir in remaining 2 teaspoons vanilla
(Do not overmix.)
Pour half of batter into crust; sprinkle with chocolate morsels to within 3/4 inch of edge
Pour in remaining batter, starting at outer edge and working toward center
Place cheesecake on a baking sheet.
Bake at 350° for 1 hour or until set
Cool on a wire rack 1 hour
Serve slightly warm with sweetened whipped cream, if desired
Garnish, if desired.
½ cup butter or margarine, softened
⅓ cup sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla, divided
⅔ cup chopped pistachios
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 (12-ounce) package semisweet chocolate mini-morsels
Sweetened whipped cream (optional)
Garnish: chocolate shavings
Passover Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
In a small bowl, stir together the crushed macaroons and butter
Press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven; remove and cool.
In a medium bowl, stir cream cheese and sugar together until well blended
Stir in matzo meal, milk and vanilla until smooth
Mix in the eggs one at a time.
Combine the chocolate chips and butter in a small microwave-safe dish
Heat at 30 second intervals until melted, stirring at each interval
Stir into the cream cheese batter
Pour the batter over the cooled crust and smooth the top.
Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes, or until the center appears solid when jiggled slightly.
2 ½ cups crushed chocolate macaroon cookies
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
4 teaspoons matzo meal
¼ cup milk
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 teaspoon butter
Cheesecake Fruit Salad
Combine milk and pudding mix in the bowl of a stand mixer and mix until incorporated
Slowly blend in cream cheese, increasing the speed to high until mixture is smooth
Mixture should be somewhat thick.
Fold in frozen whipped topping, using a spatula, until well incorporated and mixture is light and creamy
Add grapes, strawberries, bananas, blackberries, raspberries, and blueberries
Fold in gently, until fruit is well coated and evenly mixed in
Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.
1 ½ cups milk
1 (3.4 ounce) package instant cheesecake pudding mix
2 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping, thawed
3 cups grapes
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and sliced
2 large bananas, sliced
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blackberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh raspberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blueberries
Special Italian Easter Pizza
Cook and stir Italian sausage in a skillet over medium heat until browned and crumbly, 5 to 8 minutes
Drain excess grease; set sausage aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Oil the bottom and sides of a 10-inch springform pan with olive oil.
Cut 1/3 of the dough off the loaf and set aside under a cloth
Form the remaining dough into a ball; roll ball on a floured work surface into a 14-inch circle
Press circle into the bottom and up the sides of the prepared pan; excess dough will hang over the edges.
Whisk 8 eggs in a 2-cup liquid measure.
Working with only 1/2 of the ingredients at a time, make layers in the pan in the following order: sausage, mozzarella, ham, provolone, salami, pepperoni, ricotta, and Parmesan
Pour in 1/2 of the beaten eggs
Repeat layers once more, starting with sausage and ending with Parmesan
Pour remaining beaten eggs over top.
Roll out remaining bread dough into a 12-inch circle
Place over the pie to form a top crust
Roll and pinch any overhanging bottom crust over top crust to seal in the filling.
Beat remaining egg and water in a small bowl
Brush egg wash over top crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crust is golden brown and the filling is set, 50 to 60 minutes
A toothpick inserted into the middle of the crust should come out without any raw egg.
Remove from the oven and cool in the pan for at least 25 minutes, then release the spring and remove from the pan
Transfer to a serving platter and cut into wedges for serving.
½ pound bulk Italian sausage
1 tablespoon olive oil, or as needed
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen bread dough, thawed
9 large eggs, divided
½ pound sliced mozzarella cheese
½ pound sliced cooked ham
½ pound sliced provolone cheese
½ pound sliced salami
½ pound sliced pepperoni
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon water
Easy Sour Cream Cheesecake
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Place pie crust in a pan.
Cream together cream cheese and sugar.
Add eggs one at a time, blending well.
Add sour cream and vanilla.
Pour into prepared crust in the pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the cake is set and jiggles evenly across the top when lightly shaken, 60 to 70 minutes.
Run a knife around the outside edge but leave the cake in the pan
Let cool on the counter, then place in refrigerator
Remove from pan when completely chilled, and serve.
1 (9 inch) prepared shortbread pie crust
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Homemade Pizza Burgers
Combine beef, tomato paste, salt, sugar, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, pepper, and oregano in a large bowl
Mix thoroughly
Cover and refrigerate to let flavors marry, about 4 hours.
Form beef mixture into 8 thin patties
Place 1 slice of mozzarella cheese on each of 4 patties; leave at least a 1/2-inch border, breaking up the cheese as needed
Place remaining patties on top and pinch edges to seal in the cheese.
Heat a skillet over medium-low heat
Fry burgers until browned and centers reach 165 degrees F (74 degrees C), 6 to 7 minutes per side
Serve on buns.
1 pound ground beef
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon white sugar
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
4 slices mozzarella cheese
4 fresh hamburger buns
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
Fast and Fabulous Egg and Cottage Cheese Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 10x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Mix together cottage cheese, beaten eggs, Monterey Jack cheese, green chiles, melted butter, flour, bacon, and baking powder in a large bowl until well combined; pour into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Reduce heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and continue baking until a toothpick inserted into the center of casserole comes out clean, about 30 minutes more.
cooking spray
2 (16 ounce) packages cottage cheese
10 large eggs, beaten
1 pound shredded Monterey Jack cheese
1 (4 ounce) can diced green chiles
½ cup butter, melted (Optional)
½ cup all-purpose flour
½ cup cooked crumbled bacon (Optional)
1 teaspoon baking powder
Joyce's Simple Pizza Sauce
Stir tomato sauce, sugar, basil, Italian seasoning, and minced onion together in a saucepan over medium heat; bring to a simmer, reduce heat to low, and cook for 10 minutes.
1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar
½ teaspoon dried basil
¼ teaspoon Italian seasoning
¼ teaspoon minced onion
Chèvre Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper.
Stir gingersnap crumbs and melted margarine in a bowl until well combined
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan and place in the freezer.
Beat chèvre and sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition
Mix in coconut milk
Mix in coconut yogurt, flour, and vanilla just until incorporated
Pour batter into chilled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off, keep the door closed, and allow cheesecake to cool inside for at least 2 hours
Refrigerate for an additional 4 to 6 hours before serving.
7 ounces gluten-free gingersnap cookies, finely crushed
¼ cup margarine, melted
2 pounds chevre (soft goat cheese) at room temperature
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup coconut milk
8 ounces cultured coconut milk (coconut milk yogurt)
¼ cup gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 tablespoon gluten-free vanilla extract
Brownie Caramel Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a small bowl, mix together brownie mix, 1 egg and water
Spread into the greased pan
Bake for 25 minutes.
Melt the caramels with the evaporated milk over low heat in a heavy saucepan
Stir often, and heat until mixture has a smooth consistency
Reserve 1/3 cup of this caramel mixture, and pour the remainder over the warm, baked brownie crust.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla with an electric mixer until smooth
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Pour cream cheese mixture over caramel mixture.
Bake cheesecake for 40 minutes
Chill in pan
When cake is thoroughly chilled, loosen by running a knife around the edge, and then remove the rim of the pan
Heat reserved caramel mixture, and spoon over cheesecake
Drizzle with the chocolate topping.
1 (9 ounce) package brownie mix
1 egg
1 tablespoon cold water
1 (14 ounce) package individually wrapped caramels, unwrapped
1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 eggs
1 cup chocolate fudge topping
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Cheesecake Factory Banana Cheesecake with Homemade Whipped Cream
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Pulse cookies in a food processor until finely crushed
Add margarine and pulse until well blended
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of a 10-inch springform pan
Refrigerate until ready to use.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl with electric mixer at medium speed until creamy
Mix in sugar and cornstarch until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in bananas, cream, and vanilla until well combined
Pour filling into chilled crust and place the pan on a baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Reduce the oven temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue baking until the center is almost set, about 1 hour 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and set on a wire rack.
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
When ready to serve, make the whipped cream: Beat cream in a chilled glass or metal bowl with an electric mixer until frothy
Gradually mix in sugar and vanilla; continue to beat until soft peaks form.
Spread whipped cream over chilled cheesecake.
20 vanilla sandwich cookies (such as Oreo Golden Original Sandwich Cookies®)
¼ cup margarine
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
⅔ cup white sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3 large eggs
¾ cup mashed bananas
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 cups heavy whipping cream
¼ cup white sugar, or to taste
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Mini Cheesecakes with Vanilla Wafers
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line miniature muffin tins (tassie pans) with miniature paper liners.
Crush the vanilla wafers and place 1/2 tablespoon of the crushed vanilla wafers into the paper lined miniature muffin tins.
Cream together with an electric mixer the cream cheese, sugar, eggs and vanilla
Fill each miniature muffin liner with this mixture, almost to the top.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 15 minutes
Cool and then top with a teaspoonful of cherry (or any other flavor) pie filling.
1 (12 ounce) package vanilla wafers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
¾ cup white sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pumpkin Cheesecake II
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Combine the graham cracker crumbs, ground pecans, 2 tablespoons white sugar, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, and the melted butter or margarine and mix well
Firmly press mixture into one 9 inch springform pan.
Combine 3/4 cup of the white sugar, the pumpkin, 3 egg yolks, ground cinnamon, ground mace, ground ginger and salt in a medium bowl
Mix well, and set aside.
Beat cream cheese with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons white sugar and mix well
Add the whole egg, remaining egg yolk and the whipping cream, beating well
Add cornstarch and vanilla and lemon flavorings, beat batter until smooth
Add pumpkin mixture and mix well
Pour batter into the prepared pan.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 50 to 55 minutes
Do not overbake
Center may be soft but it will firm up when chilled
Let cheesecake cool on a wire rack, then refrigerate.
¾ cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup ground pecans
2 tablespoons white sugar
2 tablespoons brown sugar
¼ cup butter
¾ cup white sugar
¾ cup canned pumpkin
3 egg yolks
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon ground mace
½ teaspoon ground ginger
¼ teaspoon salt
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
⅜ cup white sugar
1 egg
1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 tablespoon cornstarch
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon lemon extract
Butter Pecan Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C).
Combine graham cracker crumbs, 1/2 cup pecans, butter, and 1/3 cup white sugar in a food processor; pulse until evenly combined
Press mixture in the bottom and partly up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and 1/2 cup white sugar together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition
Add sour cream and vanilla extract and mix well; fold in 1 cup pecans
Pour cream cheese mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) and continue baking for 50 minutes more
Turn off oven, open door slightly, and let cake sit in oven for 1 hour.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
⅓ cup white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
3 eggs
2 cups sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup chopped pecans
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Marbled Pumpkin Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix together the crushed gingersnap cookies, pecans, and butter
Press into the bottom, and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake crust 10 minutes in the preheated oven
Set aside to cool.
In a medium bowl, mix together the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, and vanilla just until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time, blending well after each
Set aside 1 cup of the mixture
Blend 1/4 cup sugar, pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg into the remaining mixture.
Spread the pumpkin flavored batter into the crust, and drop the plain batter by spoonfuls onto the top
Swirl with a knife to create a marbled effect.
Bake 55 minutes in the preheated oven, or until filling is set
Run a knife around the edge of the pan
Allow to cool before removing pan rim
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed gingersnap cookies
½ cup finely chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup canned pumpkin
¾ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
Gourmet Chicken Pizza
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Lightly grease a pizza pan or medium baking sheet.
Place chicken in a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook until no longer pink, and juices run clear
Cool, then either shred or chop into small pieces.
Unroll dough, and press into the prepared pizza pan or baking sheet
Bake crust for 7 minutes in the preheated oven, or until it begins to turn golden brown
Remove from oven.
Spread ranch dressing over partially baked crust
Sprinkle on mozzarella cheese
Place tomatoes, green onion, and chicken on top of mozzarella cheese, then top with Cheddar cheese
Return to the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, until cheese is melted and bubbly.
2 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated pizza crust
½ cup Ranch-style salad dressing
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
1 cup chopped tomatoes
¼ cup chopped green onions
Thin Crust Pizza Dough
Mix warm water and sugar together in a bowl; add yeast
Set aside until yeast mixture becomes foamy, about 10 minutes.
Pour yeast mixture into a large bowl; add flour, olive oil, and salt
Knead dough for 6 to 8 minutes, adding more flour to keep dough from sticking to your hands if needed
Cover bowl and let sit for 20 to 30 minutes.
Grease 2 pizza pans or baking sheets.
Divide dough in half
Make each half into a ball shape and roll each into a flat, circular crust using a rolling pin.
Place 1 piece dough over your hands with your knuckles turned upward directly underneath the center of the dough
Using your knuckles and backs of your hands, toss the dough into the air in a circular motion, spinning the dough
This thins the center of the dough and forms the padded edge of the pizza
When the edge of the dough is about 1/4-inch thick, place the dough onto the pan
Pizza diameter will be about 10 inches
Repeat with other piece of dough.
1 cup warm water (100 to 110 degrees F/40 to 45 degrees C)
¼ cup white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour, or more as needed
1 tablespoon olive oil
½ teaspoon salt
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Satay Chicken Pizza
Heat oil in a skillet over high heat
Saute chicken pieces in hot oil for 6 to 7 minutes
Do not overcook!
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
To Assemble Pizza: Spoon 1/4 of peanut sauce onto each pita
Sprinkle 1/4 of the browned chicken and 1/4 of the scallions on top of each
Top each 'pizza' with 1 slice cheese
Place on a lightly greased cookie sheet and bake in the preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes, until the cheese is melted and bubbly
Let stand for 1 to 2 minutes outside of oven before you cut with a pizza cutter.
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
2 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves, chopped
1 cup prepared Thai peanut sauce
1 bunch green onions, chopped
4 small (4 inch) pita breads
4 slices provolone cheese
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
Peanut Butter and Jelly Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar and melted butter
Mix well and press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven and allow to cool.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese, sugar, peanut butter and flour together until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time
Blend in milk
Pour batter into prepared crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C) and continue to bake for 40 minutes
Let cool to room temperature, then refrigerate for at least 4 hours before removing from pan
Stir jelly until smooth and drizzle over cake in a lattice design.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
2 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
⅓ cup crunchy peanut butter
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
4 eggs
½ cup milk
½ cup any flavor fruit jam
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
Grease a 13"-by-9" glass baking dish with oil.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat
Add pasta and 2 tablespoons salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until al dente, 7 to 9 minutes (pasta should still be slightly undercooked in the center)
Drain pasta; set aside.
Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon oil
Add sausage and cook, breaking into bite-size pieces, until browned and cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes
Transfer sausage to a medium bowl, leaving as much fat in skillet as possible.
In same skillet over medium heat, combine mushrooms and 1 tablespoon oil; season with 1/2 teaspoon salt
Cook, tossing occasionally, until browned, 5 to 6 minutes
Transfer mushrooms to bowl with sausage.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onion, garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 2 tablespoons oil, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened, 4 to 5 minutes
Stir in tomato sauce, diced tomatoes, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt
Remove 2 cups sauce and reserve
Fold bell peppers and cooked sausage, mushrooms, and reserved pasta into remaining sauce
Cook, stirring, until heated through, 1 to 2 minutes more.
Pour half of pasta mixture into prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle with 1 cup mozzarella
Top with remaining pasta mixture
Pour reserved 2 cups sauce over.
Cover pan with foil and bake until hot and bubbling around the edges, about 20 minutes
Remove foil, top with remaining 2 cups mozzarella, then pepperoni, and continue to bake until cheese is melted and pepperoni is browned, 15 to 20 minutes more.
4 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil, divided, plus more for pan
12 oz. cavatappi pasta
2 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. kosher salt, divided
1 lb. Italian sausage, casings removed
8 oz. cremini mushrooms, stemmed and sliced
1 small yellow onion, chopped (about 1 1/2 c.)
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce
1 (14.5-oz.) can diced tomatoes
1 1/2 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. dried basil
1/4 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
1/2 green bell pepper, seeds and stem removed, chopped into 1/2" pieces
3 c. shredded mozzarella, divided
1/3 c. sliced pepperoni (about 2 oz.)
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pizza Noodle Bake
Cook the noodles according to package directions
Meanwhile, in a large skillet, cook the beef, onion and green pepper over medium heat until beef is no longer pink, breaking the meat into crumbles; drain
Add pizza sauce and mushrooms; heat through.
Drain the noodles
In a greased 13x9-in
baking dish, layer half the noodles, half the beef mixture, 1/2 cup of each cheese and half the pepperoni
Repeat the layers
Cover and bake at 350° for 15-20 minutes or until heated through.
10 ounces uncooked egg noodles
1-1/2 pounds ground beef
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
1/4 cup chopped green pepper
1 jar (14 ounces) pizza sauce
1 can (4 ounces) mushroom stems and pieces, drained
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1 package (3-1/2 ounces) sliced pepperoni
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Sopapilla Cheesecake Pie
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla extract in a bowl until smooth.
Unroll crescent roll dough, and use a rolling pin to shape each sheet into a 9x13-inch rectangle
Press one piece into the bottom of the prepared baking dish
Evenly spread cream cheese mixture on top, then cover with remaining piece of crescent dough.
Mash remaining 3/4 cup sugar, butter, and cinnamon with a fork until combined
Dot mixture over top of dough.
Bake in the preheated oven until crescent dough has puffed and turned golden brown, about 30 minutes.
Remove from the oven and drizzle with honey
Cool completely in the pan for about 2 hours before cutting into 12 squares.
cooking spray
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon Mexican vanilla extract
2 (8 ounce) cans refrigerated crescent rolls
½ cup butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup honey
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
The Cheesecake Factory Original Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475°F
Place a large pan filled with 1/2 inch water in oven.
Make crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs and cinnamon; add butter or margarine
Press crust onto bottom and 2/3 of the way up a 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment
Wrap a large piece of foil around bottom of pan
Freeze until filling is prepared.
Make filling: Use an electric mixer to mix cream cheese, sugar, sour cream and vanilla
Blend until smooth and creamy
Scrape down sides of bowl
Whisk eggs in a bowl; add to cream cheese mixture
Blend just until eggs are incorporated.
Remove crust from freezer and pour in filling
Carefully place cheesecake into preheated water bath
Bake for 12 minutes; turn oven to 350°F and bake until top of cheesecake turns golden, 50 to 60 minutes
Remove cake to a wire rack to cool.
Make topping: Combine sour cream and sugar; spread over cake
Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours.
Crust:
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup unsalted butter or margarine, melted
FILLING:
4 (8 oz.) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups sugar
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
5 large eggs
TOPPING:
½ cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
No-Bake Cheesecake
Crush graham crackers: Put graham crackers in a large resealable plastic bag, and crush them with a rolling pin until very fine crumbs form.
Mix graham-cracker crumbs with sugar and butter: Pour crumbs into a medium bowl; stir in sugar
Add butter and stir until well combined.
Press crumb mixture into springform pan: Press the crumb mixture into a 9-inch springform pan, spreading it 1 1/2 to 2 inches up the side; press flat
Chill crust in freezer at least 10 minutes.
Make filling: Meanwhile, make the filling: Using an electric mixer set at medium-high speed, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in the condensed milk a little at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl, as necessary
Beat in the lemon juice and vanilla.
Add filling to crust, cover, and refrigerate: Pour the filling into the crust; smooth the top with a rubber spatula
Cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until firm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours.
Remove cheesecake from pan and serve: Unclasp sides of pan, and remove cheesecake.
2 packages (20 sheets) graham crackers
11 tablespoons (1 ⅜ sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 14-ounce can (1 ¼ cups) sweetened condensed milk
0.25 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Basque Cheesecake
Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 400°
Brush pan with unsalted butter, then line with 2 overlapping 16x12" sheets of parchment paper, making sure parchment comes at least 2" above top of pan on all sides
Because the parchment needs to be pleated and creased in some areas to fit in pan, you won’t end up with a clean, smooth outer edge to the cake; that’s okay! Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet.
Beat 2 lb
cream cheese, room temperature, and 1½ cups (300 g) sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium-low speed, scraping down sides of the bowl, until very smooth, no lumps remain, and sugar has dissolved, about 2 minutes
(You can also use a large bowl with a hand mixer on medium low-speed, but you may need to continue beating for a few extra minutes to dissolve sugar.)
Increase speed to medium and add 6 large eggs, one egg at a time, beating until each egg is incorporated, about 15 seconds, before adding the next
Scrape down sides of bowl, then reduce mixer speed to medium-low
Add 2 cups heavy cream, 1 tsp
Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp
Morton kosher salt, and 1 tsp
vanilla extract and beat until combined, about 30 seconds.
Turn off mixer and sift ⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour evenly over cream cheese mixture using a fine-mesh sieve
Beat on low speed until incorporated, about 15 seconds
Scrape down sides of the bowl (yet again) and continue to beat until batter is very smooth, homogenous, and silky, about 10 seconds.
Pour batter into prepared pan
Bake cheesecake until deeply golden brown on top and still very jiggly in the center, 60–65 minutes.
Let cool slightly (cake will collapse drastically as it cools), then unmold
Let cool completely
Carefully peel away parchment from sides of cheesecake
Slice into wedges and serve at room temperature, preferably with a glass of sherry alongside
Do Ahead: Basque cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead
Cover and chill
Let cheesecake sit at room temperature for several hours to remove chill before serving
Editor’s note: This Basque-style cheesecake was first printed online in January 2019 as “Basque Burnt Cheesecake.” Head this way for more of our favorite Easter desserts →
Unsalted butter (for pan)
2 lb. cream cheese, room temperature
1½ cups (300 g) sugar
6 large eggs
2 cups heavy cream
1 tsp. Diamond Crystal or ½ tsp. Morton kosher salt
1 tsp. vanilla extract
⅓ cup (42 g) all-purpose flour
Sherry (for serving; optional)
A 10"-diameter springform pan
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Lemon-and-Italian-Cheese Pizza
Place a pizza stone on floor of gas oven (remove racks) or bottom rack of electric oven
Preheat oven to at least 500 degrees for 1 hour.
Meanwhile, arrange onion and lemon slices over dough, leaving a 1-inch border
Distribute cheeses evenly; top with rosemary
Season with pepper; drizzle with oil.
Switch oven to broiler setting
Align edge of peel with edge of stone
Tilt peel, jerking it gently to move pizza
When edge of pizza touches stone, quickly pull back peel to transfer pizza to stone
(Do not move pizza.) Broil until bubbles begin to form in crust, 3 to 4 minutes
Reduce temperature to 500 degrees, and bake until crust is crisp and golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes more
(If not using broiler, bake pizza 10 to 15 minutes total.) Remove pizza from oven using peel
Slice and serve.
3 ounces Piave cheese, shaved
2 ounces fontina cheese, shaved
1 round Chris Bianco's Pizza Dough
0.25 red onion, very thinly sliced
6 very thin slices lemon, seeds removed
1 tablespoon small sprigs fresh rosemary
Freshly ground pepper
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling
Chocolate Pudding Pizza
Preheat oven to 375°
Prepare cookie mix dough according to package directions
Press into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Bake until set, about 15 minutes; cool.
Beat cream cheese until smooth
Spread over crust
In another bowl, beat milk and pudding mix on medium speed for 2 minutes
Spread over cream cheese layer
Refrigerate until set, about 20 minutes
Spread with whipped topping
Sprinkle with chips
Chill for 1-2 hours.
1 package (17-1/2 ounces) peanut butter cookie mix
1 carton (12 ounces) spreadable cream cheese, softened
1-3/4 cups cold whole milk
1 package (3.9 ounces) instant chocolate pudding mix
1 carton (8 ounces) frozen whipped topping, thawed
1/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
Best Classic Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, butter, granulated sugar, and salt until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until fragrant and edges start to darken in color, 12 to 15 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition to incorporate, then fold in sour cream and vanilla
Add flour and salt and beat until just combined
Pour mixture into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up the sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Cooking spray
9 graham crackers (about 1 sleeve), finely crushed
6 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c. granulated sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. sour cream
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
Classic Cheesecake
Preheat oven and make crust: Preheat oven to 375°F
Make crust: Butter a 9-by-3-inch springform pan
In a food processor, pulse graham crackers until fine crumbs form
Add remaining crust ingredients and combine: Add melted butter, sugar, and salt, and pulse to combine.
Press crust into pan: Press crumb mixture into bottom and about 1 inch up side of pan.
Bake crust: Bake until set, 12 to 15 minutes; let cool on a wire rack
Reduce oven to 325°F.
Boil water and make filling: Set a kettle of water to boil
Using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese on medium until fluffy, scraping down side of bowl.
Add sugar: Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy.
Add lemon and salt: Beat in lemon zest and juice, and salt.
Add eggs: Beat in eggs, one at a time, scraping down side of bowl after each addition.
Add sour cream: Beat in sour cream.
Prepare pan, add filling, and place in water bath: Wrap bottom half of pan in foil
Pour in filling; place pan in a roasting pan
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform.
Bake: Bake until just set in center, about 1 3/4 hours
Remove pan from water bath; let cool 20 minutes.
Cool, then refrigerate: Run a paring knife around edge; let cool completely
Cover; chill overnight before serving.
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus room-temperature butter for pan
12 graham crackers (3-by-5 inch)
0.25 cup sugar
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
2.5 pounds bar cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest, plus 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
0.5 teaspoon coarse salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350º and butter and flour two 9" cake pans
Prepare red velvet cake batter according to box instructions.
Divide batter among prepared cake pans and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes
Let cool slightly in cake pans, then invert onto a wire rack to cool completely
Using a serrated knife, level out tops of the cake so they're flat (save scraps for decorating!).
Make cheesecake layer: Line a 9" springform pan with parchment and spray with cooking spray
In a large bowl using a hand mixer or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and sugar until fluffy and combined, 3 minutes
Add eggs, one a time, until combined
Add sour cream, flour, vanilla, and salt and beat until combined.
Pour filling into prepared springform pan and bake until only slightly jiggly in the center, about 1 hour
Let cool slightly, then transfer to the freezer to cool completely and firm up before assembling.
Make cream cheese frosting: In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy, then add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat until combined.
Assemble cake: On a cake platter, place one red velvet cake
Top with cheesecake layer, pressing down firmly, then top with second red velvet cake.
Using an offset spatula, frost cake with cream cheese frosting.
Garnish with red velvet cake crumbs before serving.
Butter, for cake pans
All-purpose flour, for cake pans
1 box red velvet cake mix, plus ingredients called for on the box
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
2/3 c. granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/3 c. sour cream
1 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
2 8-oz. packages cream cheese, softened
1/2 c. (1 stick) butter, softened
2 1/4 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Family-Favorite Cheesecake
In a small bowl, combine the cracker crumbs, sugar and cinnamon; stir in butter
Press onto the bottom and 2 in
up the sides of a greased 9-in
springform pan
Bake at 350° for 5 minutes
Cool on a wire rack
Reduce heat to 325°.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Add egg yolks; beat on low just until blended.
In a small bowl, beat egg whites until soft peaks form; fold into cream cheese mixture
Pour over crust.
Bake for 1 hour or until center is almost set
Cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes
Carefully run a knife around edge of pan to loosen; cool 1 hour longer
Refrigerate until completely cooled.
Combine the sour cream, sugar and vanilla; fold in whipped cream
Spread over cheesecake
Refrigerate overnight
Remove sides of pan.
2-1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs (about 40 squares)
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup butter, melted
FILLING:
3 packages (8 ounces each) cream cheese, softened
1-1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs, separated, room temperature
TOPPING:
1/2 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream, whipped
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Pizza dough
It’s easiest to make this in a standing mixer with a dough hook (otherwise mix it in a bowl and knead on your work surface)
Put the flour and salt in the bowl and mix the yeast into the water
It’s always a good idea to wait 5 mins before using the liquid to see if the yeast is working – little bits will start to rise to the top and you’ll know it’s active.
Turn on the motor and pour in the liquid
Keep the speed on medium-high and it should come together as a ball
If the bottom is still sticking, tip in 1-2 tbsp of flour
Knead for 5-7 mins until the dough is shiny and it springs back when you press your finger into it
(If kneading by hand, it will take you about 10 mins.) Try not to add too much flour if you can
This is a slightly sticky dough, but that keeps it light and it rises beautifully.
Use oiled hands to remove the dough from the hook and bowl
Oil another bowl and place the dough in it
Turn it around so that it’s lightly coated in the oil
Cover tightly with cling film and then a tea towel
Place in a draught-free area that’s warm and leave until the dough has doubled in size
If it’s a hot day, it should only take 2 to 3 hrs to rise, but it could take 4 hrs if it’s cold
(If you don’t plan to use the dough for a day or two, place it in the fridge straight away; take it out 3-4 hrs before using
Punch it down first and bring it together on a floured surface.)
Divide the dough into 2 pieces for big pizzas or 4 for plate-sized ones, then shape into balls (see Shaping the dough in tips, below) – dust them in flour as they will be sticky
Keep them covered with a tea towel or cling film, for 20-30 mins, while you prepare the toppings
You can also freeze them in sealed bags
Just thaw in the fridge on the day, then bring to room temperature 3 hrs before using.
To shape the dough: If you want to get air pockets and a light but crisp dough, then don’t use a rolling pin
It flattens and pops the air bubbles
(Two days in the fridge will produce the most air bubbles – take it out three to four hours before using.) If your dough is at room temperature, you can use your fingers to gently stretch the dough out
Once it’s about 16cm, place the disc over the tops of your hands (not palm side) and use them to stretch it further, up to about 25cm
You can start pressing out the other discs, then wait to do the final bit when you’re ready to cook
Once you’ve mastered stretching the dough out, you can experiment with other shapes: rectangles, rounds or squares all look authentic.
To cook the pizza: An outdoor gas barbecue is best for controlling the temperature, but charcoal will give your pizza a more authentic, smoky flavour
For gas, turn the flames down to medium-low so that the bottom of the pizza doesn't burn
When cooking on a charcoal barbecue, let the coals turn grey before you pop on the pizza.
Place the pizza on a floured baking sheet (with no edge) or a pizza peel – this is a flat pizza paddle with a long handle, which makes it easier to get the dough on and off the grill
The flour will provide the 'wheels' for it to slide onto the grill – don’t use oil as it sticks more and won’t transfer as well.
Make sure the grill is hot and the flames have died back if cooking on charcoal
Slide the dough onto the grill, close the lid (if your barbecue has one) and give it three to four minutes
The dough will puff up; it's ready when the bottom has light brown stripes
Use tongs to pull the dough off and turn it upside down.
Assemble the pizza of your choice – see 'Goes well with', right, for topping suggestions
Remember that less is more, as the dough will stay crisper and the toppings will cook better.
Place the pizza back on the grill, uncooked-side down, and shut the lid
Give it another three to four minutes, then remove when the cheese is melted and the toppings are hot.
500g '00' flour or plain flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp salt
½ tsp dried yeast (not fast-action)
300-350ml warm water
oil, for greasing
Air Fryer Pizza
Preheat the air fryer for 5 minutes at 380 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray the air fryer basket with olive oil spray or line with a parchment liner to avoid sticking.
Remove crust from the can, and cut in half
Shape each piece of dough into a circle and crimping up the edges to form a crust
Make sure it'll fit in your air fryer basket
Carefully transfer one pizza crust to the air fryer basket and spray lightly with olive oil spray
Prick the dough with a fork and precook for 3 minutes.
Spread 3 tablespoons pizza sauce onto the crust in the air fryer basket and sprinkle with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese
Top with 7 pepperoni slices and half of the onion slices
Sprinkle with basil and red pepper flakes, if using.
Cook until crust is golden brown and crispy and the cheese has melted, 7 to 9 minutes
Keep in mind that cooking times may vary depending on the brand and size of your air fryer, so check frequently to be sure nothing overcooks or burns
Repeat procedure with the second pizza crust
Serve hot.
olive oil cooking spray
1 (13.8 ounce) package refrigerated pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)
6 tablespoons pizza sauce, divided
10 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
14 slices pepperoni, divided
½ cup onion slices, divided (Optional)
sprinkle of dried basil and red pepper flakes (optional)
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Enchilada Casserole
Preheat oven to 350°
In a large skillet over medium heat, heat oil
Add onion and pepper and cook until soft, 5 minutes
Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more
Add beans, corn, chicken, and green chilis and cook until warmed through, 5 minutes
Reserve ½ cup enchilada sauce then pour remaining sauce into skillet, stirring to combine.
Spread reserved ½ cup enchilada sauce into a 9”-x-13” then layer 6 tortillas in pan, overlapping to cover the entire pan
Pour ⅓ of mixture over tortillas then top with about ⅓ of each cheese
Top with another layer of tortillas and repeat to make 2 more layers, finishing with cheese.
2 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 (15.5-oz.) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1 (15.25-oz.) can corn, drained
3 c. cooked, shredded chicken
1 (4.5-oz.) can diced green chilis
2 (10-oz.) cans enchilada sauce
18 corn tortillas
2 c. shredded cheddar
2 c. shredded Monterey jack
Sour cream, for garnish
Freshly chopped cilantro, for garnish
Diced avocado, for garnish
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Triple-Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees
Assemble a 9-inch springform pan with the raised side of the bottom facing down.
In a food processor, pulse cookies until finely ground
Add butter, and pulse to moisten
Transfer to prepared pan, and press crumbs firmly and evenly into the bottom
Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet; bake 10 minutes, and set aside.
Wipe out bowl and blade of food processor
Add cream cheese, sugar, and salt; blend until smooth
With motor running, add eggs, then sour cream, and finally chocolate; blend filling until smooth, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Wrap bottom half of springform pan in foil
Pour in filling; place in a roasting pan
Place roasting pan in oven
Pour in boiling water to come halfway up side of springform pan
Bake just until set, 1 hour
Turn oven off, and let cheesecake sit 1 hour in oven, without opening (this helps prevent cracking).
Run a thin knife around the edge of the pan (this helps prevent cracking, too); leave in pan, and cool completely on wire rack
Cover loosely and refrigerate, at least 6 hours or up to overnight.
Prepare Chocolate Ganache
Unmold cheesecake
Spread ganache in center of cheesecake; let set before serving.
1 package (9 ounces) chocolate wafer cookies
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 bars (8 ounces each) cream cheese, room temperature
1.5 cups sugar
0.5 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
8 ounces semisweet chocolate, melted
Rich Chocolate Ganache , for topping
Squash Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place squash and onion in a large skillet over medium heat; pour in water
Cover, and cook until squash is tender, about 5 minutes
Drain well, and place in a large bowl.
Mix cracker crumbs and cheese together in a medium bowl
Stir half of the cracker mixture into the cooked squash and onions.
Mix eggs and milk together in a small bowl, then add to squash mixture.
Stir in 1/4 cup melted butter, and season with salt and pepper
Spread into the prepared baking dish
Sprinkle with remaining cracker mixture, and dot with 2 tablespoons butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until lightly browned, about 25 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
4 cups sliced yellow squash
½ cup chopped onion
¼ cup water, or more as needed
35 buttery round crackers, crushed
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
2 large eggs, beaten
¾ cup milk
¼ cup butter, melted
1 teaspoon salt
ground black pepper to taste
2 tablespoons butter
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
No-Rise Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Combine flour, sugar, yeast, and salt in a large bowl
Mix in warm water and oil until dough comes together.
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Red Velvet Cheesecake
Make Crust: Stir together graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and sugar; press mixture into bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Make Cheesecake Filling: Beat cream cheese and granulated sugar at medium-low speed with an electric mixer 1 minute
Add eggs and next 6 ingredients (through food coloring), mixing on low speed just until fully combined
Pour batter into prepared crust.
Bake cheesecake: Bake at 325°F for 10 minutes; reduce heat to 300°F, and bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until center is firm
Run knife along outer edge of cheesecake
Turn oven off
Let cheesecake stand in oven 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake from oven; cool in pan on a wire rack 30 minutes
Cover and chill 8 hours.
Make Cream Cheese Topping: Beat 1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese and 1/4 cup butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until smooth; gradually add powdered sugar and vanilla, beating until smooth.
Assemble cheesecake: Spread evenly over top of cheesecake
Remove sides of springform pan
Garnish, if desired.
1 1/2 cups chocolate graham cracker crumbs
1/4 cup butter, melted
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
3 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
4 large eggs, lightly beaten
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whole buttermilk
2 tsp. vanilla extract
1 tsp. distilled white vinegar
2 (1-oz.) bottles red food coloring
1 (3-ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/4 cup butter, softened
2 cups powdered sugar
1 tsp. vanilla extract
Fresh mint sprigs
Mamaw's Chicken and Rice Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease sides and bottom of a casserole dish.
Stir chicken, water, rice, cream of chicken soup, cream of celery soup, and cream of mushroom soup together in the prepared casserole dish; season with salt and pepper.
Arrange butter evenly over the top of the chicken mixture.
Bake in preheated oven until the rice is tender and the chicken is cooked through, 1 hour to 75 minutes
Cool 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
3 chicken breasts, cut into cubes
2 cups water
2 cups instant white rice
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of celery soup
1 (10.75 ounce) can cream of mushroom soup
salt and ground black pepper to taste
½ cup butter, sliced into pats
Mini Cheesecakes with Vanilla Wafers
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line miniature muffin tins (tassie pans) with miniature paper liners.
Crush the vanilla wafers and place 1/2 tablespoon of the crushed vanilla wafers into the paper lined miniature muffin tins.
Cream together with an electric mixer the cream cheese, sugar, eggs and vanilla
Fill each miniature muffin liner with this mixture, almost to the top.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 15 minutes
Cool and then top with a teaspoonful of cherry (or any other flavor) pie filling.
1 (12 ounce) package vanilla wafers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
¾ cup white sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Easy Mexican Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-baking dish with cooking spray.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 8 to 10 minutes.
Stir in salsa, reduce heat, and simmer until liquid is absorbed, about 20 minutes
Stir in beans; cook until heated through.
Spread crushed tortilla chips over the bottom of the baking dish; spoon beef mixture on top
Spread sour cream over beef, then sprinkle olives, green onion, and tomatoes on top
Cover with Cheddar cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until hot and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
Serve and enjoy!
1 pound lean ground beef
2 cups salsa
1 (16 ounce) can chili beans, drained
3 cups tortilla chips, crushed
2 cups sour cream
1 (2 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
½ cup chopped green onion
½ cup chopped fresh tomato
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
Best Tuna Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rapid boil
Cook egg noodles at a boil until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes; drain.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
Mix noodles, condensed soup, 1 cup cheese, tuna, peas, mushrooms, and onion in a large bowl until well combined.
Transfer the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Top the mixture with crushed potato chip and remaining 1 cup of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly, about 15 to 20 minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 (12 ounce) package egg noodles
2 (10.5 ounce) cans condensed cream of mushroom soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese, divided
2 (5 ounce) cans tuna, drained
1 cup frozen green peas
½ (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
¼ cup chopped onion
1 cup crushed potato chips
Outdoor Pizza Oven Pizza Dough
Combine flour and yeast in the bowl of a food processor
Pulse 3 to 4 times until well-combined
With machine running, add water and continue to process until mixture forms rough ball and no dry flour remains, 10 to 20 seconds
Allow to rest for 20 minutes.
Add salt to top of dough and process until a mostly smooth ball of dough forms, 20 to 30 seconds
Dough temperature should register 75°F (24°C) on an instant-read thermometer when mixing is complete
If not, continue to mix in 10 second intervals until it reaches the desired dough temperature
Transfer dough ball to a lightly oiled medium bowl and knead once or twice by hand until smooth ball is formed
Cover bowl and let dough sit for 45 minutes.
Using lightly-moistened hands, knead dough in bowl until uniform in texture, 5 to 10 seconds
Cover and let sit at room temperature until puffy and not quite doubled in volume, 60 to 120 minutes.
Transfer dough to a lightly floured countertop and divide into four pieces of about 225g (8 ounces) each for 12-inch ovens, or three pieces of about 300g (10.5 ounces) each for 16-inch ovens
Form each portion into a smooth, round ball
Coat exterior of dough ball lightly with oil and place each in a 4- to 7-inch round, lidded plastic takeout container, or on a lightly-oiled tray, spaced at least 2 inches apart, covered loosely but completely
Refrigerate dough for at least 24 hours or up to 4 days (48 to 72 hours is ideal).
On the day you plan to bake pizzas, remove dough balls from refrigerator and allow to warm up, covered, 1 to 2 hours before baking
Exact timing depends upon ambient temperature; dough should reach at least 60°F (15.5°C) before stretching and baking.
535g (18.9 ounces; about 4 cups plus 3 tablespoons) high protein all-purpose flour, such as King Arthur (Baker’s percentage: 100%)
2g (0.07 ounce; 1/2 teaspoon) instant dry yeast, such as SAF (Baker’s percentage: 0.4%)
360g (12.7 ounces; about 1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon) water, at 40°F (4°C) (Baker’s percentage: 67%)
12g (0.4 ounce; 1 tablespoon) Diamond Crystal kosher salt (Baker’s percentage: 2%)
Extra-virgin olive oil for oiling proofing containers and dough balls
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Brownie Caramel Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a small bowl, mix together brownie mix, 1 egg and water
Spread into the greased pan
Bake for 25 minutes.
Melt the caramels with the evaporated milk over low heat in a heavy saucepan
Stir often, and heat until mixture has a smooth consistency
Reserve 1/3 cup of this caramel mixture, and pour the remainder over the warm, baked brownie crust.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla with an electric mixer until smooth
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Pour cream cheese mixture over caramel mixture.
Bake cheesecake for 40 minutes
Chill in pan
When cake is thoroughly chilled, loosen by running a knife around the edge, and then remove the rim of the pan
Heat reserved caramel mixture, and spoon over cheesecake
Drizzle with the chocolate topping.
1 (9 ounce) package brownie mix
1 egg
1 tablespoon cold water
1 (14 ounce) package individually wrapped caramels, unwrapped
1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 eggs
1 cup chocolate fudge topping
Sloppy Joe Casserole
Preheat oven to 375°
In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat oil
Add beef; season with 1 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper
Cook, breaking up beef with a wooden spoon, until crumbled and no longer pink, 6 to 8 minutes
Using a slotted spoon, transfer beef to a plate
Pour off all but 1 tablespoon fat.
In same skillet over medium heat, cook onions, bell peppers, and garlic, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are softened, 10 to 12 minutes; season with salt and pepper
Add ketchup and cook, stirring occasionally, until ketchup is reduced to a thick paste, 5 to 6 minutes
Add chili powder and mustard and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds
Add tomato sauce, broth, vinegar, Worcestershire, and brown sugar and cook, stirring, until combined
Add beef and a few dashes of hot sauce (if using).
Transfer to a 2-quart baking dish
Top with rolls cut sides down
Brush with butter and sprinkle with cheese.
Bake casserole until rolls are toasted and cheese is melted, 10 to 15 minutes
Sprinkle with parsley (if using).
1 tbsp. vegetable oil
1 lb. ground beef
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 medium yellow onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
1 red bell pepper, seeds and ribs removed, chopped
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2/3 c. ketchup
1 tbsp. chili powder
1 tsp. dried mustard
1 (8-oz.) can tomato sauce
1 c. low-sodium beef or chicken broth
2 tbsp. apple cider vinegar
2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
2 tsp. dark brown sugar
Hot sauce (optional)
8 sweet Hawaiian slider rolls, halved crosswise
1 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
1 c. shredded cheddar
Chopped fresh parsley, for serving (optional)
Grandma's Hamburger Casserole
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir ground beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes; drain and discard grease.
Mix tomato sauce, sugar, garlic salt, and salt into the ground beef; simmer until flavors blend, about 20 minutes
Remove from the heat and cover the skillet.
While the sauce is cooking, bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook egg noodles in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain.
While the egg noodles are cooking, preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish.
Mix sour cream, cream cheese, and onion together in a bowl.
Layer 1/2 of the egg noodles into the prepared casserole dish
Top with 1/2 of the sour cream mixture, then 1/2 of the ground beef mixture
Repeat layers once more
Sprinkle Cheddar cheese over top.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
2 (15 ounce) cans tomato sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar, or to taste
1 teaspoon garlic salt, or to taste
1 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1 (8 ounce) package egg noodles
1 cup sour cream
3 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 large white onion, finely diced
½ cup shredded sharp Cheddar cheese, or more to taste
Million Dollar Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Stir cream of chicken soup, cottage cheese, sour cream, cream cheese, Creole seasoning, onion powder, and 1/2 teaspoon of the garlic powder in a medium bowl until well blended and smooth.
Fold in chicken and parsley until evenly coated.
Combine crackers, melted butter, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder in a medium bowl.
Spoon chicken mixture evenly into an 11x7-inch or 9-inch square baking dish
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella then top with cracker mixture.
Place on a foil-lined baking sheet and bake in the preheated oven until crackers are golden brown and edges are bubbly, about 35 minutes
Garnish with scallions, if desired.
1 (10.5 ounce) can cream of chicken soup
½ cup cottage cheese
½ cup sour cream
4 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
1 ½ teaspoons Creole seasoning
½ teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder, divided
5 cups shredded rotisserie chicken
1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley
30 buttery round crackers (such as Ritz), crushed
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 teaspoon sliced scallions, or to taste
Awesome Broccoli-Cheese Casserole
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Whisk condensed soup, mayonnaise, egg, and onions together in a medium mixing bowl until combined.
Place frozen broccoli into a very large mixing bowl and break it up if necessary; add soup mixture and mix well to coat
Sprinkle with cheese and mix well; spread mixture into the prepared baking dish
Season with salt, pepper, and paprika.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and the casserole is golden brown on top, 45 minutes to 1 hour.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 cup mayonnaise
1 large egg, beaten
¼ cup chopped onion
3 (10 ounce) packages frozen chopped broccoli
8 ounces shredded sharp Cheddar cheese
salt and pepper to taste
1 dash paprika
Grandma's Hash Brown Casserole
Gather all ingredients
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix hash browns, Cheddar cheese, condensed soup, sour cream, 1/2 of the melted butter, onion, salt, and pepper in a bowl
Transfer mixture to a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Sprinkle cornflakes on top, then drizzle with remaining melted butter.
Bake in the preheated oven until sauce is bubbly and top is golden brown, 1 to 1 ½ hours.
Serve and enjoy!
1 (2 pound) package frozen hash brown potatoes, thawed
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
1 cup butter, melted, divided
½ cup chopped onion
½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 cup crushed cornflakes
Espresso Martini Cheesecake
Crust
Preheat oven to 325°
Grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray.
In a food processor, pulse Oreos until fine crumbs form
Transfer to a large bowl
Add butter and salt and mix until combined (mixture should resemble wet sand)
Press into bottom and up sides of prepared pan.
Bake crust until darkened and fragrant, about 12 minutes
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Filling
In a small pot over medium heat, heat cream and espresso powder, stirring frequently, until espresso is dissolved
Let cool.
In a large bowl, using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream cheese and granulated sugar until no lumps remain
Add eggs, one at a time, beating to blend after each addition
Add cooled cream mixture, Kahlúa, and salt and beat until combined
Pour filling into crust.
Wrap bottom of pan in foil and place in a large roasting pan
Pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until center only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes
Turn off oven, prop open door, and let cool in oven, about 1 hour.
Remove foil
Refrigerate cheesecake until chilled, at least 5 hours or up to overnight.
Topping
In a large bowl, using handheld mixer on medium-high speed (or in the large bowl of stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat cream, confectioners’ sugar, and espresso powder until medium peaks form.
Spread whipped cream over cheesecake
Cover one half of the top of cheesecake with parchment and dust exposed half with cocoa powder
Arrange a few espresso beans on undusted side.
Cooking spray
24 Oreos
4 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted
Pinch of kosher salt
1/3 c. heavy cream
1 tbsp. instant espresso
4 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1 c. (200 g.) granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 c. Kahlúa
1/2 tsp. kosher salt
3/4 c. heavy cream
2 tbsp. confectioners' sugar
1/2 tsp. instant espresso
Unsweetened cocoa powder, for dusting
Espresso beans, for topping
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
Beef stew
Heat oven to 160C/140C fan/gas 3 and put the kettle on.
Put 2 thickly sliced celery sticks, 1 chopped onion, 2 chunkily sliced carrots, 5 bay leaves and 1 whole thyme sprig in a flameproof casserole dish with 1 tbsp vegetable oil and 1 tbsp butter.
Soften for 10 mins, then stir in 2 tbsp plain flour until it doesn’t look dusty anymore, followed by 2 tbsp tomato purée, 2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce and 2 crumbled beef stock cubes.
Gradually stir in 600ml hot water, then tip in 850g stewing beef and bring to a gentle simmer.
Cover and put in the oven for 2hrs 30 mins, then uncover and cook for 30mins – 1hr more until the meat is really tender and the sauce is thickened.
Garnish with the picked leaves of the remaining thyme sprig.
2 celery sticks, thickly sliced
1 onion, chopped
2 really big carrots, halved lengthways then very chunkily sliced
5 bay leaves
2 thyme sprigs, 1 whole and 1 leaves picked
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp butter
2 tbsp plain flour
2 tbsp tomato purée
2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
2 beef stock cubes, crumbled
850g stewing beef (featherblade or brisket works nicely), cut into nice large chunks
Chicken Pizza
Let dough rest, covered, at room temperature for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 450°F.
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add 1 1/2 teaspoons oil, chicken, and sausage; sauté 5 minutes
Remove mixture from pan
Add 1 tablespoon oil to pan; swirl
Add onion, mushrooms and garlic; sauté 5 minutes, stirring constantly.
Punch dough down
Sprinkle a baking sheet with cornmeal
Roll dough out to a 14-inch circle on baking sheet
Brush dough with 1 tablespoon oil; sprinkle with 2 ounces cheese
Arrange chicken mixture, vegetable mixture and bell pepper over cheese, leaving a 1/4-inch border
Top with remaining cheese and crushed red pepper
Bake at 450°F for 20 minutes or until golden
Sprinkle with herbs
Cut into slices.
1 (12-ounce) portion fresh pizza dough
2.5 tablespoons olive oil, divided
2 (6-ounce) skinless, boneless chicken breast halves, cubed
1 (4-ounce) link sweet Italian sausage, casing removed
0.25 cup vertically sliced onion
4 ounces cremini mushrooms, sliced
1 tablespoon chopped fresh garlic
2 teaspoons cornmeal
4 ounces fontina cheese, shredded
1 red bell pepper, seeded and sliced
0.75 teaspoon crushed red pepper
2 tablespoons chopped parsley
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme
King Ranch Chicken Casserole
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat
Saute onion and bell peppers in the hot oil until warmed through, about 2 minutes
Transfer to a large bowl.
Add both cans of condensed soup, diced tomatoes with chile peppers, chicken broth, sour cream, cumin, ancho chile powder, oregano, and chipotle chile powder; mix until sauce is well-combined.
Spread a few tablespoons of sauce in the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking dish
Layer with 1/2 of the chicken, 1/2 of the sauce, 1/2 of the Cheddar cheese, and 1/2 of the tortillas.
Spread the remaining chicken over the tortillas
Spread all but 1/2 cup of the remaining sauce over the chicken, then top with another 1/3 of the Cheddar, and the remaining tortillas
Spread the remaining 1/2 cup over top, and sprinkle with the remaining Cheddar.
Bake casserole in the preheated oven until bubbling, about 40 minutes.
Turn on the broiler and broil until the top is golden, 2 to 3 more minutes.
Serve hot and enjoy!
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 medium white onion, diced
1 medium red bell pepper, diced
1 medium green bell pepper, diced
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of mushroom soup
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed cream of chicken soup
1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes with green chile peppers (such as RO*TEL®)
1 cup chicken broth
2 tablespoons sour cream
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon ancho chile powder
½ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon chipotle chile powder
1 (3 pound) cooked chicken, torn into shreds or cut into chunks
1 (8 ounce) package shredded Cheddar cheese
10 (6 inch) corn tortillas, cut into quarters
Easy French Toast Casserole
Gather all ingredients and grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Make the French toast: Stir brown sugar and butter together in a saucepan over medium-low heat until butter is melted and sugar has dissolved, 2 to 4 minutes
Pour butter-brown sugar mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Scatter French bread pieces over top in a 1 1/2- to 2-inch layer.
Whisk milk, eggs, and vanilla together in a bowl until well combined
Pour over bread pieces, then press bread down with a spatula so the bread absorbs the liquid
Cover the dish with plastic wrap and refrigerate, 8 hours to overnight.
When ready to bake, remove French toast from the refrigerator and discard plastic wrap
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
Make topping: Mix brown sugar and cinnamon together in a small bowl
Sprinkle over the French toast.
Bake in the preheated oven until casserole is browned and bubbling, about 30 minutes, covering with aluminum foil at any point if the top is browning too much.
To serve, cut into squares and invert onto serving plates.
1 cup brown sugar
½ cup unsalted butter
1 (8 ounce) loaf crusty French bread, cut into bite-sized pieces, or more as needed
2 cups milk
6 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 tablespoon brown sugar, or to taste
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon, or to taste
Casserole recipes

Casserole recipes
Easy Sour Cream Cheesecake
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Place pie crust in a pan.
Cream together cream cheese and sugar.
Add eggs one at a time, blending well.
Add sour cream and vanilla.
Pour into prepared crust in the pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the cake is set and jiggles evenly across the top when lightly shaken, 60 to 70 minutes.
Run a knife around the outside edge but leave the cake in the pan
Let cool on the counter, then place in refrigerator
Remove from pan when completely chilled, and serve.
1 (9 inch) prepared shortbread pie crust
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Key Lime Cheesecake
Combine graham cracker crumbs with butter
Press into the bottom and partially up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan; refrigerate while you prepare the filling.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Fill a shallow pan half full of hot water and place on the lower rack to minimize cracking.
To make the filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, lime zest, and cornstarch in a large bowl with an electric mixer until smooth and fluffy
Beat in eggs one at a time, blending just until smooth
Add Key lime juice with mixer on low
Finish mixing by hand
Do not overbeat, or the cake will crack during baking
Pour batter into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 55 to 65 minutes, or until set.
Turn the oven off, and let cheesecake stand in the oven for 30 minutes with the door open at least 4 inches
Remove from oven.
Refrigerate cheesecake 8 hours to overnight, and up to 3 days.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons butter, melted
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
1 tablespoon grated lime zest
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large eggs
⅔ cup key lime juice
Chèvre Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper.
Stir gingersnap crumbs and melted margarine in a bowl until well combined
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan and place in the freezer.
Beat chèvre and sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition
Mix in coconut milk
Mix in coconut yogurt, flour, and vanilla just until incorporated
Pour batter into chilled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off, keep the door closed, and allow cheesecake to cool inside for at least 2 hours
Refrigerate for an additional 4 to 6 hours before serving.
7 ounces gluten-free gingersnap cookies, finely crushed
¼ cup margarine, melted
2 pounds chevre (soft goat cheese) at room temperature
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup coconut milk
8 ounces cultured coconut milk (coconut milk yogurt)
¼ cup gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 tablespoon gluten-free vanilla extract
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Lucinda's New York-Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven and prepare pan, Preheat oven to 375°F with rack in lower third of oven
Butter bottom and sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Line sides of pan with 4-inch-high strips of parchment and butter parchment.
Combine graham crackers and sugar for crust: In a food processor, pulse graham crackers with salt and sugar to fine crumbs.
Add butter: Add butter and pulse until fully incorporated.
Bake and cool crust: Press evenly into bottom of prepared springform pan and bake until crust is golden brown and set, 15 minutes
Remove from oven and transfer to wire rack to cool 10 minutes.
Mix cheesecake filling: In a large stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese, butter, and sour cream with sugar until light and smooth.
Add eggs, yolks, zest, and vanilla: Beat in eggs one at a time until fully incorporated
Beat in remaining egg yolks, zest, and vanilla extract.
Line pan with foil and parchment: Crisscross two long pieces of foil and place a piece of parchment on top.
Wrap exterior of pan in foil: Place springform in center of foil and wrap foil tightly around bottom and sides of pan.
Place pan in water bath: transfer to oven and bake: Transfer to a roasting pan, pour filling into springform pan, and smooth the top
Pour boiling water into roasting pan to come halfway up the sides of the springform pan and carefully transfer to oven
Bake for 1 hour until top of cheesecake is golden brown, edges are set, and center jiggles slightly.
Remove from water bath and foil; chill: Lift cheesecake from water bath, remove foil and parchment from outside of springform, and chill cheesecake in refrigerator for at least 8 hours.
Slice the cheesecake and serve: To serve, remove side of springform pan and parchment strips
Cut cheesecake with a long, thin-bladed knife.
4 ounces graham crackers, broken into pieces
0.25 teaspoon coarse salt
0.333 cup sugar
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2.5 pounds cream cheese (five 8-ounce packages), room temperature
4 ounces unsalted butter, room temperature
8 ounces sour cream, room temperature
1.75 cups granulated sugar
5 large eggs, plus 2 egg yolks
Zest of 1 lemon
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Marbled Pumpkin Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix together the crushed gingersnap cookies, pecans, and butter
Press into the bottom, and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake crust 10 minutes in the preheated oven
Set aside to cool.
In a medium bowl, mix together the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, and vanilla just until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time, blending well after each
Set aside 1 cup of the mixture
Blend 1/4 cup sugar, pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg into the remaining mixture.
Spread the pumpkin flavored batter into the crust, and drop the plain batter by spoonfuls onto the top
Swirl with a knife to create a marbled effect.
Bake 55 minutes in the preheated oven, or until filling is set
Run a knife around the edge of the pan
Allow to cool before removing pan rim
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed gingersnap cookies
½ cup finely chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup canned pumpkin
¾ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Zucchini Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place zucchini into a colander and sprinkle with salt; let drain for 15 minutes, then squeeze out the moisture.
Combine zucchini, 1 cup mozzarella, and 1/2 cup Monterey Jack in a large bowl
Mix in Parmesan and eggs until well combined
Press into the prepared baking dish.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add ground beef and onion to the hot skillet; cook and stir until beef is crumbly, evenly browned, and no longer pink
Drain and discard any excess grease
Stir in tomato sauce and Italian seasoning.
Remove crust from the oven and spoon sauce mixture over top
Scatter bell pepper, mushrooms, black olives, and remaining mozzarella and Monterey Jack over sauce.
Return to the oven and bake until heated through, about 20 minutes
Let sit for 5 minutes before slicing into six pieces and serving.
4 cups shredded unpeeled zucchini
½ teaspoon salt
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese, divided
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 pound ground beef
½ cup chopped onion
1 (15 ounce) can Italian-style tomato sauce
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
1 green bell pepper, chopped
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms
½ cup sliced black olives
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Perfect Every Time Pizza or Calzone Dough
Mix together 1/2 cup lukewarm water and yeast in a small bowl
Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine 1/2 cup water, olive oil, honey, and salt in a large mixing bowl
Add 1 cup flour and mix well
Mix yeast mixture into flour mixture
Add remaining flour, 1 cup at a time, until dough is well combined.
Knead dough on a floured work surface until dough is soft, smooth, and elastic, about 8 minutes
Roll dough into 4 calzone shapes or 1 large pizza.
½ cup lukewarm water
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
½ cup water
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons honey
½ teaspoon salt
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Chocolate Cookie Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Combine cookie crumbs, brown sugar, melted butter, and cinnamon in a medium bowl; firmly press mixture evenly onto the bottom and 1 inch up the sides of a 10-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 5 minutes; set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Gradually mix in 1 1/4 cups sugar, heavy whipping cream, flour, and 1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat in eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition
Pour 1/3 of the batter into the prepared pan
Top with cookie pieces; pour in remaining batter.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove cake from the oven.
Combine sour cream, remaining 1/4 cup sugar, and remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla; spread evenly on cheesecake
Continue baking for 7 minutes
Turn oven off, leaving cheesecake in for an additional 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake and let cool completely on a wire rack.
Make the chocolate topping: Combine chocolate chips and heavy whipping cream in a saucepan; stir over low heat until chocolate melts, then stir in vanilla
Pour mixture over cheesecake while still warm.
Refrigerate before serving, at least 8 hours or overnight
Remove about 1/2 hour to 1 hour before serving and remove the ring from the springform pan.
2 cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
¼ cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar, divided
⅓ cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
16 ounces sour cream
1 ½ cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Very, Very, Very Good Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease and flour a 9 inch springform pan.
Using an electric mixer, beat the butter, cream cheese and sugar until light and fluffy
Beat in the eggs, one at a time, until blended
Stir in the heavy cream, cornstarch and vanilla.
Wrap the bottom of the springform pan with aluminum foil
Line a roasting pan with a damp kitchen towel
Place cheesecake pan on towel, inside roasting pan, and place roasting pan on oven rack
Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the cheesecake pan
Bake for 60 minutes, or until center of the cheesecake is just firm
Cool at room temperature for 1 hour
Refrigerate until set before removing from pan.
1 cup butter, room temperature
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs, room temperature
2 cups heavy cream
1 ½ tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Keto Chicken Crust Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Mix ground chicken, mozzarella, Parmesan, garlic, Italian seasoning, salt, and pepper together in a large bowl with your hands until well combined
Fold in basil.
Place chicken mixture between two pieces of parchment paper
Gently press on the top piece of parchment and spread mixture into a circle or rectangle with a thickness of 1/4 to 1/2 inch
Remove and discard the top piece of parchment paper.
Bake in the preheated oven until starting to brown on the edges, 35 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground chicken
½ cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
¼ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon pepper
1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil
Homemade Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Make crust: Combine graham cracker crumbs, walnuts, and cinnamon sugar in the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of the pan and 1 to 2 inches up the sides
Place in the freezer to set up.
While crust chills, make filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric hand mixer until combined
Add heavy cream slowly while beating on low speed; mix until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating on low speed until combined
Remove crust from the freezer and pour in filling.
Bake in the preheated oven until center appears almost set when gently shaken, 35 to 45 minutes
Remove cheesecake carefully from the oven and place on a wire rack to cool, about 15 minutes.
Slide a butter knife around the outer edge to separate cheesecake from the pan
Let cool to room temperature, about 30 minutes
Unclip the side of the pan and remove the ring
Let cool for another 30 minutes; chill in the refrigerator at least 4 hours to overnight before serving.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup finely ground walnuts
1 tablespoon cinnamon sugar
½ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
3 large eggs, slightly beaten
Easy Sour Cream Cheesecake
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Place pie crust in a pan.
Cream together cream cheese and sugar.
Add eggs one at a time, blending well.
Add sour cream and vanilla.
Pour into prepared crust in the pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the cake is set and jiggles evenly across the top when lightly shaken, 60 to 70 minutes.
Run a knife around the outside edge but leave the cake in the pan
Let cool on the counter, then place in refrigerator
Remove from pan when completely chilled, and serve.
1 (9 inch) prepared shortbread pie crust
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Mary's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, 1/4 cup sugar and margarine until well blended 
Press mixture into a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese with sugar until smooth
In a separate bowl, combine cream, flour, eggs, lemon juice and vanilla
Beat together, and then pour into cream cheese mixture
Mix well
Pour filling into prepared graham cracker crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 65 minutes
Turn off oven, and cool cake in oven for 30 minutes
Prop door open and cool in oven for an additional 30 minutes
Remove from oven and cool completely
Refrigerate for as long as possible before serving.
2 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup white sugar
½ cup margarine, softened
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
1 pint heavy cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
7 eggs
2 teaspoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Garden Veggie Pizza Squares
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Roll out crescent rolls onto a large nonstick baking sheet
Stretch and flatten to form a single rectangular shape on the baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 11 to 13 minutes
Allow to cool.
Mix cream cheese with 1/2 of the ranch dressing mix in a medium bowl; add more dressing mix to taste
Spread mixture over cooled crust.
Arrange carrots, bell peppers, broccoli, and green onions on top
Chill in the refrigerator for about 1 hour
Cut into 48 bite-sized squares to serve.
1 (8 ounce) package refrigerated crescent rolls
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (1 ounce) package Ranch-style dressing mix
2 carrots, finely chopped
½ cup chopped red bell peppers
½ cup chopped green bell pepper
½ cup fresh broccoli, chopped
½ cup chopped green onions
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Zucchini Pizza Bites
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread zucchini slices in 1 layer on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until zucchini is tender, about 15 minutes.
Spoon pizza sauce over each zucchini slice and top with pepperoni and mozzarella cheese
Sprinkle herbs over each.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 5 minutes more.
2 zucchini, sliced into 1/4-inch thick rounds
1/4 cup pizza sauce, or more to taste
20 slices pepperoni, or more to taste
1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or as needed
Italian seasoning, dried parsley, or oregano for sprinkling (Optional)
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
New York Italian Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Move an oven rack to the middle of the oven.
Beat the cream cheese, ricotta cheese, and sugar in a large mixing bowl with an electric mixer until well combined
Beat in the eggs, one at a time
Add the butter, flour, cornstarch, and vanilla extract; mix until well combined
Fold in the sour cream and lemon juice
Pour the mixture into an ungreased 10-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake in the oven for 2 more hours
Remove from oven and let cool completely
Run a thin spatula around the edge of the cheesecake before springing open the pan to remove
Serve at room temperature or cold; refrigerate leftovers.
1 pound cream cheese, softened
1 pound ricotta cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
¼ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
2 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sour cream
2 tablespoons lemon juice (Optional)
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Eric's Best New York Style Cheesecake
Bring all ingredients to room temperature
Place oven shelf in the center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Wrap the outside of a 9 inch springform pan with foil
Generously butter the inside of the pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth
Mix in sugar and cornstarch
Blend in sour cream and whipping cream
Add amaretto and vanilla
Stir in eggs and egg yolk one at a time, mixing thoroughly between each addition
Pour batter into prepared pan.
Pour mixture into prepared springform pan
Place pan in another pan at least one inch wider than cake pan and add warm water to the outer pan to create a water bath for the cake (this prevents cracks in your cheesecake)
Bake on the center rack of oven for 70 minutes.
Turn oven off and allow to cool with oven door open for one hour
Then remove cake from water bath and chill at least 3 hours before removing from springform pan.
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 ½ cups sour cream
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 ¾ cups white sugar
⅛ cup cornstarch
1 fluid ounce amaretto liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 eggs
1 egg yolks
Mushroom-Prosciutto Pizza
Preheat oven to 450°.
Heat a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat
Coat pan with cooking spray
Add mushrooms and shallots to pan; sauté 7 minutes or until mushrooms are tender
Add garlic and thyme; sauté 1 minute
Stir in vinegar; remove from heat.
Place crust on the bottom rack of oven
Bake at 450° for 4 minutes.
Place the crust on a baking sheet
Spread mushroom mixture evenly over crust; sprinkle evenly with prosciutto and fontina cheese
Bake at 450° for 6 minutes or until cheese melts.
Tips: For a crisp crust, bake the pizza crust on the lowest rack for a few minutes before adding the toppings
Presliced button mushrooms can substitute for the creminis.
Cooking spray
8 ounces sliced cremini mushrooms
¼ cup finely chopped shallots
1 garlic clove, minced
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme
2 teaspoons sherry vinegar
1 (10-ounce) Italian cheese-flavored thin pizza crust (such as Boboli)
2 ounces prosciutto, cut into thin strips
⅓ cup (about 1 1/2 ounces) shredded fontina cheese
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Valentino's Pizza Crust
Stir water, sugar and yeast together until dissolved
Add the olive oil and the salt
Stir in the flour until well blended
Let dough rest for 10 minutes.
Pat dough into pan or on to a pizza stone using fingers dipped in olive oil
If desired sprinkle basil, thyme or other seasonings on crust
Top with your favorite pizza toppings and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in a preheated 425 degree oven.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
Key Lime Cheesecake
Combine graham cracker crumbs with butter
Press into the bottom and partially up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan; refrigerate while you prepare the filling.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Fill a shallow pan half full of hot water and place on the lower rack to minimize cracking.
To make the filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, lime zest, and cornstarch in a large bowl with an electric mixer until smooth and fluffy
Beat in eggs one at a time, blending just until smooth
Add Key lime juice with mixer on low
Finish mixing by hand
Do not overbeat, or the cake will crack during baking
Pour batter into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 55 to 65 minutes, or until set.
Turn the oven off, and let cheesecake stand in the oven for 30 minutes with the door open at least 4 inches
Remove from oven.
Refrigerate cheesecake 8 hours to overnight, and up to 3 days.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons butter, melted
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
1 tablespoon grated lime zest
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large eggs
⅔ cup key lime juice
Ladyfinger Cheesecake
Place ladyfingers on the bottom and around the edge of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a medium bowl, whip cream until peaks form.
In a large bowl, beat together the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Gently fold in the whipped cream.
Spoon 1/2 of cream cheese mixture into springform pan; cover with a layer of lady fingers and add remaining cream cheese mixture.
Layer remaining ladyfingers and top with fruit pie filling
Chill before serving.
3 (3 ounce) packages ladyfingers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup white sugar
1 pint heavy whipping cream
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
White Chocolate Blueberry Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C)
Make the crust: In a food processor, blend together the graham cracker crumbs, almonds and sugar until the almonds are ground fine
Pour in the melted butter and caramel while processing, until mixture is combined
Press the mixture onto the bottom, and half way up the side of a 10 inch springform pan.
Make the filling: In a metal bowl over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the white chocolate, stirring until smooth
Remove from heat and set aside
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese and 3/4 cup sugar until smooth
Beat in the eggs and the egg yolks, one at a time
Beat in the flour and the vanilla and blend in the melted white chocolate slowly, beating until the filling is well combined
Pour filling into crust.
Bake in the middle of preheated oven for 1 hour
Then turn off the heat, and crack the oven door an inch, letting the cheesecake cool in the oven to room temperature
Cover loosely and refrigerate overnight before removing from pan.
Make the topping: In a saucepan, combine 1/2 cup sugar and cornstarch
Stir in water and blueberries
Bring to a boil, then simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally
Press through a fine sieve
Stir in lemon juice, allow to cool, and store in a glass jar.
2 cups crushed graham crackers
1 cup slivered almonds
½ cup white sugar
¼ cup clarified butter, melted
2 tablespoons caramel topping
1 pound white chocolate, chopped
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
2 egg yolks
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
¼ cup water
1 pint fresh blueberries
2 teaspoons lemon juice
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Air Fryer Pizza
Preheat the air fryer for 5 minutes at 380 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray the air fryer basket with olive oil spray or line with a parchment liner to avoid sticking.
Remove crust from the can, and cut in half
Shape each piece of dough into a circle and crimping up the edges to form a crust
Make sure it'll fit in your air fryer basket
Carefully transfer one pizza crust to the air fryer basket and spray lightly with olive oil spray
Prick the dough with a fork and precook for 3 minutes.
Spread 3 tablespoons pizza sauce onto the crust in the air fryer basket and sprinkle with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese
Top with 7 pepperoni slices and half of the onion slices
Sprinkle with basil and red pepper flakes, if using.
Cook until crust is golden brown and crispy and the cheese has melted, 7 to 9 minutes
Keep in mind that cooking times may vary depending on the brand and size of your air fryer, so check frequently to be sure nothing overcooks or burns
Repeat procedure with the second pizza crust
Serve hot.
olive oil cooking spray
1 (13.8 ounce) package refrigerated pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)
6 tablespoons pizza sauce, divided
10 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
14 slices pepperoni, divided
½ cup onion slices, divided (Optional)
sprinkle of dried basil and red pepper flakes (optional)
Swampland Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix the graham crackers, pecans, and 1/3 cup of sugar in a bowl, and mash the softened margarine into the crumbs until thoroughly combined
Press the crumb mixture into the bottom of a 10-inch springform pan
In a bowl, beat the cream cheese, 2 cups of sugar, eggs, and lemon juice together with an electric mixer set on medium speed until fluffy and well blended; spoon the mixture on top of the crumbs.
Bake in the preheated oven until set, about 1 hour and 10 minutes; remove from oven, and let cool for 30 minutes
Mix the sour cream, 1/2 cup of sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl; top the cheesecake with the sour cream mixture
Return to oven, and bake 10 more minutes
Allow to chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours to set.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup chopped pecans
⅓ cup white sugar
6 tablespoons margarine, softened
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
2 cups white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate Cappuccino Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter one 9 or 10 inch springform pan.
Combine the chocolate wafer crumbs, softened butter, 2 tablespoons white sugar, and the cinnamon
Mix well and press mixture into the buttered springform pan, set aside.
In a medium sized bowl beat the softened cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add 1 cup white sugar mixing until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time
Beat at low speed until very smooth.
Melt the 8 ounces semisweet chocolate with 2 tablespoons whipping cream in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth.
Add chocolate mixture to cream cheese mixture and blend well
Stir in sour cream, salt, coffee, 1/4 cup coffee liqueur, and vanilla; beat until smooth
Pour mixture into prepared pan.
Bake in the center of oven at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 45 minutes
Center will be soft but will firm up when chilled
Do not over bake
Leave cake in oven with the heat turned off and the door ajar for 45 minutes
Remove cake from oven and chill for 12 hours
Just before serving top cake with mounds of flavored whipped cream and garnish with chocolate leaves
Yields 16 servings.
To Make Flavored Whipped Cream: Beat whipping cream until soft peaks form, then beat in confectioner's sugar and 2 tablespoons coffee liqueur.
To Make Chocolate Leaves: Melt 1 ounce semisweet chocolate in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth
Brush real non-toxic plant leaves (such as orange leaves) on one side with melted chocolate
Freeze until firm and then peel off leaves
Freeze chocolate leaves until needed.
1 cup chocolate cookie crumbs
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
8 (1 ounce) squares semisweet chocolate
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 cup sour cream
¼ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons instant coffee granules dissolved in 1/4 cup hot water
¼ cup coffee flavored liqueur
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons coffee-flavored liqueur
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Vanilla Bean Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C), and lightly butter a 10 inch springform pan.
Place the sandwich cookies into a plastic bag, and crush with a rolling pin
Pour the crumbs into a bowl, and mix with the scraped seeds of 1 vanilla bean
Drizzle the crumbs with melted butter and stir to combine
Press the crumb mixture firmly into the bottom and up the sides of the springform pan, and set aside.
Place the softened cream cheese and sugar into the work bowl of an electric mixer, and beat for about 3 minutes on Medium speed, until the mixture is smooth
Beat in the eggs one at a time, incorporating each egg before adding the next one
Add the scraped seeds of 2 vanilla beans, the vanilla extract, sour cream, and heavy cream, and beat on Medium-High speed for about 1 minute, until the mixture is blended and smooth.
Pour the mixture into the cookie crumb crust, leaving about 2 inches of space from the top of the pan for the cake to expand as it bakes.
Place a baking dish onto the bottom rack of the preheated oven, and fill it halfway with boiling water
Place the cheesecake onto the middle rack, above the pan of boiling water, and bake until a small knife inserted into the middle of the cheesecake comes out clean, about 1 hour and 20 minutes.
Turn the oven off and let the cheesecake cool down inside the oven for 1 hour
Cover the cheesecake with plastic wrap, then aluminum foil, and refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight before serving.
1 (18 ounce) package vanilla sandwich cookies (such as Oreo Golden Original Sandwich Cookies®)
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise and seeds scraped
¼ cup butter, melted
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise and seeds scraped
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
¾ cup sour cream
½ cup heavy cream
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Reuben Pizza
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Grease a large pizza pan.
On a lightly floured surface, roll bread dough out into a large circle about 18-inches in diameter; transfer to the prepared pizza pan
Build up the edges, and prick the center all over with a fork so it doesn't form a dome when baking.
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden.
Spread 1/2 of the salad dressing over hot crust
Sprinkle with 1/2 of the Swiss cheese
Arrange corned beef on top of cheese, then drizzle with remaining salad dressing
Top with sauerkraut and remaining Swiss cheese
Sprinkle with caraway seed.
Bake for another 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until cheese melts and toppings are heated through
Sprinkle with chopped pickle
Let stand for 5 minutes before slicing.
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen whole wheat bread dough, thawed
½ cup thousand island dressing
2 cups shredded Swiss cheese
6 ounces deli sliced corned beef, cut into strips
1 cup sauerkraut - rinsed and drained
½ teaspoon caraway seed
¼ cup chopped dill pickles (Optional)
Naan Bread Margherita Pizza with Prosciutto
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil.
Place naan breads on the prepared baking sheet; brush each with olive oil
Sprinkle green onion and garlic over each naan
Arrange 4 slices mozzarella cheese onto each naan; top with tomato slices
Season tomatoes with salt and pepper
Top tomato layers with prosciutto, basil, and Parmesan cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until pizza is crispy on the edges and cheese is melted, about 8 minutes
Turn on the oven's broiler and broil until cheese is lightly browned and bubbling, about 2 minutes.
2 naan breads
2 teaspoons olive oil, or as needed
1 green onion, sliced
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
8 slices mozzarella cheese
1 large roma tomato, thinly sliced
salt and ground black pepper to taste
1 slice prosciutto, sliced
6 leaves fresh basil, roughly chopped
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
Warm Fudge-Filled Cheesecake
Beat butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy; add 1/3 cup sugar, beating well
Gradually add flour, beating at low speed until blended
Stir in 1 teaspoon vanilla and pistachios
Press into bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake at 350° for 12 to 15 minutes or until golden
Cool on a wire rack.
Beat cream cheese at medium speed with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1 1/2 cups sugar, beating well
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating just until yellow disappears
Stir in remaining 2 teaspoons vanilla
(Do not overmix.)
Pour half of batter into crust; sprinkle with chocolate morsels to within 3/4 inch of edge
Pour in remaining batter, starting at outer edge and working toward center
Place cheesecake on a baking sheet.
Bake at 350° for 1 hour or until set
Cool on a wire rack 1 hour
Serve slightly warm with sweetened whipped cream, if desired
Garnish, if desired.
½ cup butter or margarine, softened
⅓ cup sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla, divided
⅔ cup chopped pistachios
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 (12-ounce) package semisweet chocolate mini-morsels
Sweetened whipped cream (optional)
Garnish: chocolate shavings
Passover Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
In a small bowl, stir together the crushed macaroons and butter
Press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven; remove and cool.
In a medium bowl, stir cream cheese and sugar together until well blended
Stir in matzo meal, milk and vanilla until smooth
Mix in the eggs one at a time.
Combine the chocolate chips and butter in a small microwave-safe dish
Heat at 30 second intervals until melted, stirring at each interval
Stir into the cream cheese batter
Pour the batter over the cooled crust and smooth the top.
Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes, or until the center appears solid when jiggled slightly.
2 ½ cups crushed chocolate macaroon cookies
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
4 teaspoons matzo meal
¼ cup milk
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 teaspoon butter
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
Special Italian Easter Pizza
Cook and stir Italian sausage in a skillet over medium heat until browned and crumbly, 5 to 8 minutes
Drain excess grease; set sausage aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Oil the bottom and sides of a 10-inch springform pan with olive oil.
Cut 1/3 of the dough off the loaf and set aside under a cloth
Form the remaining dough into a ball; roll ball on a floured work surface into a 14-inch circle
Press circle into the bottom and up the sides of the prepared pan; excess dough will hang over the edges.
Whisk 8 eggs in a 2-cup liquid measure.
Working with only 1/2 of the ingredients at a time, make layers in the pan in the following order: sausage, mozzarella, ham, provolone, salami, pepperoni, ricotta, and Parmesan
Pour in 1/2 of the beaten eggs
Repeat layers once more, starting with sausage and ending with Parmesan
Pour remaining beaten eggs over top.
Roll out remaining bread dough into a 12-inch circle
Place over the pie to form a top crust
Roll and pinch any overhanging bottom crust over top crust to seal in the filling.
Beat remaining egg and water in a small bowl
Brush egg wash over top crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crust is golden brown and the filling is set, 50 to 60 minutes
A toothpick inserted into the middle of the crust should come out without any raw egg.
Remove from the oven and cool in the pan for at least 25 minutes, then release the spring and remove from the pan
Transfer to a serving platter and cut into wedges for serving.
½ pound bulk Italian sausage
1 tablespoon olive oil, or as needed
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen bread dough, thawed
9 large eggs, divided
½ pound sliced mozzarella cheese
½ pound sliced cooked ham
½ pound sliced provolone cheese
½ pound sliced salami
½ pound sliced pepperoni
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon water
Cheesecake Fruit Salad
Combine milk and pudding mix in the bowl of a stand mixer and mix until incorporated
Slowly blend in cream cheese, increasing the speed to high until mixture is smooth
Mixture should be somewhat thick.
Fold in frozen whipped topping, using a spatula, until well incorporated and mixture is light and creamy
Add grapes, strawberries, bananas, blackberries, raspberries, and blueberries
Fold in gently, until fruit is well coated and evenly mixed in
Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.
1 ½ cups milk
1 (3.4 ounce) package instant cheesecake pudding mix
2 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping, thawed
3 cups grapes
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and sliced
2 large bananas, sliced
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blackberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh raspberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blueberries
Homemade Pizza Burgers
Combine beef, tomato paste, salt, sugar, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, pepper, and oregano in a large bowl
Mix thoroughly
Cover and refrigerate to let flavors marry, about 4 hours.
Form beef mixture into 8 thin patties
Place 1 slice of mozzarella cheese on each of 4 patties; leave at least a 1/2-inch border, breaking up the cheese as needed
Place remaining patties on top and pinch edges to seal in the cheese.
Heat a skillet over medium-low heat
Fry burgers until browned and centers reach 165 degrees F (74 degrees C), 6 to 7 minutes per side
Serve on buns.
1 pound ground beef
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon white sugar
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
4 slices mozzarella cheese
4 fresh hamburger buns
Fast and Fabulous Egg and Cottage Cheese Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 10x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Mix together cottage cheese, beaten eggs, Monterey Jack cheese, green chiles, melted butter, flour, bacon, and baking powder in a large bowl until well combined; pour into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Reduce heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and continue baking until a toothpick inserted into the center of casserole comes out clean, about 30 minutes more.
cooking spray
2 (16 ounce) packages cottage cheese
10 large eggs, beaten
1 pound shredded Monterey Jack cheese
1 (4 ounce) can diced green chiles
½ cup butter, melted (Optional)
½ cup all-purpose flour
½ cup cooked crumbled bacon (Optional)
1 teaspoon baking powder
Chèvre Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper.
Stir gingersnap crumbs and melted margarine in a bowl until well combined
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan and place in the freezer.
Beat chèvre and sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition
Mix in coconut milk
Mix in coconut yogurt, flour, and vanilla just until incorporated
Pour batter into chilled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off, keep the door closed, and allow cheesecake to cool inside for at least 2 hours
Refrigerate for an additional 4 to 6 hours before serving.
7 ounces gluten-free gingersnap cookies, finely crushed
¼ cup margarine, melted
2 pounds chevre (soft goat cheese) at room temperature
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup coconut milk
8 ounces cultured coconut milk (coconut milk yogurt)
¼ cup gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 tablespoon gluten-free vanilla extract
Joyce's Simple Pizza Sauce
Stir tomato sauce, sugar, basil, Italian seasoning, and minced onion together in a saucepan over medium heat; bring to a simmer, reduce heat to low, and cook for 10 minutes.
1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar
½ teaspoon dried basil
¼ teaspoon Italian seasoning
¼ teaspoon minced onion
Brownie Caramel Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a small bowl, mix together brownie mix, 1 egg and water
Spread into the greased pan
Bake for 25 minutes.
Melt the caramels with the evaporated milk over low heat in a heavy saucepan
Stir often, and heat until mixture has a smooth consistency
Reserve 1/3 cup of this caramel mixture, and pour the remainder over the warm, baked brownie crust.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla with an electric mixer until smooth
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Pour cream cheese mixture over caramel mixture.
Bake cheesecake for 40 minutes
Chill in pan
When cake is thoroughly chilled, loosen by running a knife around the edge, and then remove the rim of the pan
Heat reserved caramel mixture, and spoon over cheesecake
Drizzle with the chocolate topping.
1 (9 ounce) package brownie mix
1 egg
1 tablespoon cold water
1 (14 ounce) package individually wrapped caramels, unwrapped
1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 eggs
1 cup chocolate fudge topping
Fruit Pizza with Marshmallow Fluff
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Smooth refrigerated sugar cookie dough into an approximately 1/4-inch-thick layer onto an ungreased baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until edges are lightly browned and center is no longer doughy, about 10 minutes.
Blend marshmallow creme and cream cheese in a medium bowl
Spread mixture over crust
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
1 (18 ounce) package refrigerated sugar cookie dough
1 (7 ounce) jar marshmallow creme
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Cheesecake Factory Banana Cheesecake with Homemade Whipped Cream
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Pulse cookies in a food processor until finely crushed
Add margarine and pulse until well blended
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of a 10-inch springform pan
Refrigerate until ready to use.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl with electric mixer at medium speed until creamy
Mix in sugar and cornstarch until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in bananas, cream, and vanilla until well combined
Pour filling into chilled crust and place the pan on a baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Reduce the oven temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue baking until the center is almost set, about 1 hour 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and set on a wire rack.
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
When ready to serve, make the whipped cream: Beat cream in a chilled glass or metal bowl with an electric mixer until frothy
Gradually mix in sugar and vanilla; continue to beat until soft peaks form.
Spread whipped cream over chilled cheesecake.
20 vanilla sandwich cookies (such as Oreo Golden Original Sandwich Cookies®)
¼ cup margarine
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
⅔ cup white sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3 large eggs
¾ cup mashed bananas
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 cups heavy whipping cream
¼ cup white sugar, or to taste
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Mini Cheesecakes with Vanilla Wafers
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line miniature muffin tins (tassie pans) with miniature paper liners.
Crush the vanilla wafers and place 1/2 tablespoon of the crushed vanilla wafers into the paper lined miniature muffin tins.
Cream together with an electric mixer the cream cheese, sugar, eggs and vanilla
Fill each miniature muffin liner with this mixture, almost to the top.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 15 minutes
Cool and then top with a teaspoonful of cherry (or any other flavor) pie filling.
1 (12 ounce) package vanilla wafers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
¾ cup white sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pumpkin Cheesecake II
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Combine the graham cracker crumbs, ground pecans, 2 tablespoons white sugar, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, and the melted butter or margarine and mix well
Firmly press mixture into one 9 inch springform pan.
Combine 3/4 cup of the white sugar, the pumpkin, 3 egg yolks, ground cinnamon, ground mace, ground ginger and salt in a medium bowl
Mix well, and set aside.
Beat cream cheese with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons white sugar and mix well
Add the whole egg, remaining egg yolk and the whipping cream, beating well
Add cornstarch and vanilla and lemon flavorings, beat batter until smooth
Add pumpkin mixture and mix well
Pour batter into the prepared pan.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 50 to 55 minutes
Do not overbake
Center may be soft but it will firm up when chilled
Let cheesecake cool on a wire rack, then refrigerate.
¾ cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup ground pecans
2 tablespoons white sugar
2 tablespoons brown sugar
¼ cup butter
¾ cup white sugar
¾ cup canned pumpkin
3 egg yolks
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon ground mace
½ teaspoon ground ginger
¼ teaspoon salt
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
⅜ cup white sugar
1 egg
1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 tablespoon cornstarch
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon lemon extract
Peanut Butter and Jelly Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar and melted butter
Mix well and press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven and allow to cool.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese, sugar, peanut butter and flour together until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time
Blend in milk
Pour batter into prepared crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C) and continue to bake for 40 minutes
Let cool to room temperature, then refrigerate for at least 4 hours before removing from pan
Stir jelly until smooth and drizzle over cake in a lattice design.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
2 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
⅓ cup crunchy peanut butter
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
4 eggs
½ cup milk
½ cup any flavor fruit jam
Marbled Pumpkin Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix together the crushed gingersnap cookies, pecans, and butter
Press into the bottom, and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake crust 10 minutes in the preheated oven
Set aside to cool.
In a medium bowl, mix together the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, and vanilla just until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time, blending well after each
Set aside 1 cup of the mixture
Blend 1/4 cup sugar, pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg into the remaining mixture.
Spread the pumpkin flavored batter into the crust, and drop the plain batter by spoonfuls onto the top
Swirl with a knife to create a marbled effect.
Bake 55 minutes in the preheated oven, or until filling is set
Run a knife around the edge of the pan
Allow to cool before removing pan rim
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed gingersnap cookies
½ cup finely chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup canned pumpkin
¾ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
Butter Pecan Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C).
Combine graham cracker crumbs, 1/2 cup pecans, butter, and 1/3 cup white sugar in a food processor; pulse until evenly combined
Press mixture in the bottom and partly up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and 1/2 cup white sugar together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition
Add sour cream and vanilla extract and mix well; fold in 1 cup pecans
Pour cream cheese mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) and continue baking for 50 minutes more
Turn off oven, open door slightly, and let cake sit in oven for 1 hour.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
⅓ cup white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
3 eggs
2 cups sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup chopped pecans
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Thin Crust Pizza Dough
Mix warm water and sugar together in a bowl; add yeast
Set aside until yeast mixture becomes foamy, about 10 minutes.
Pour yeast mixture into a large bowl; add flour, olive oil, and salt
Knead dough for 6 to 8 minutes, adding more flour to keep dough from sticking to your hands if needed
Cover bowl and let sit for 20 to 30 minutes.
Grease 2 pizza pans or baking sheets.
Divide dough in half
Make each half into a ball shape and roll each into a flat, circular crust using a rolling pin.
Place 1 piece dough over your hands with your knuckles turned upward directly underneath the center of the dough
Using your knuckles and backs of your hands, toss the dough into the air in a circular motion, spinning the dough
This thins the center of the dough and forms the padded edge of the pizza
When the edge of the dough is about 1/4-inch thick, place the dough onto the pan
Pizza diameter will be about 10 inches
Repeat with other piece of dough.
1 cup warm water (100 to 110 degrees F/40 to 45 degrees C)
¼ cup white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour, or more as needed
1 tablespoon olive oil
½ teaspoon salt
Gourmet Chicken Pizza
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Lightly grease a pizza pan or medium baking sheet.
Place chicken in a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook until no longer pink, and juices run clear
Cool, then either shred or chop into small pieces.
Unroll dough, and press into the prepared pizza pan or baking sheet
Bake crust for 7 minutes in the preheated oven, or until it begins to turn golden brown
Remove from oven.
Spread ranch dressing over partially baked crust
Sprinkle on mozzarella cheese
Place tomatoes, green onion, and chicken on top of mozzarella cheese, then top with Cheddar cheese
Return to the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, until cheese is melted and bubbly.
2 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated pizza crust
½ cup Ranch-style salad dressing
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
1 cup chopped tomatoes
¼ cup chopped green onions
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Ancient Roman Cheesecake (Savillum)
Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Pour some water into a small, oven proof bowl, and place into the oven
Arrange the bay leaves over the bottom of the springform pan to cover.
Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl, then mix in ricotta cheese, honey, orange zest, and lemon juice
Sprinkle in the flour, and stir until evenly combined
Gently pour the batter over the bay leaves, being careful not to disturb them too much.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 35 to 40 minutes
Run the tip of a paring knife around the edges of the pan, and release from the springform pan
Invert onto a serving plate, and serve warm or chilled.
15 bay leaves
3 eggs
8 ounces ricotta cheese
½ cup honey
1 teaspoon grated orange zest
1 teaspoon lemon juice
½ cup all-purpose flour
Satay Chicken Pizza
Heat oil in a skillet over high heat
Saute chicken pieces in hot oil for 6 to 7 minutes
Do not overcook!
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
To Assemble Pizza: Spoon 1/4 of peanut sauce onto each pita
Sprinkle 1/4 of the browned chicken and 1/4 of the scallions on top of each
Top each 'pizza' with 1 slice cheese
Place on a lightly greased cookie sheet and bake in the preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes, until the cheese is melted and bubbly
Let stand for 1 to 2 minutes outside of oven before you cut with a pizza cutter.
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
2 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves, chopped
1 cup prepared Thai peanut sauce
1 bunch green onions, chopped
4 small (4 inch) pita breads
4 slices provolone cheese
Thin-Crust Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients.
Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water that's 110 degrees F (44 degrees C) in a small bowl
Let stand until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam, about 5 to 8 minutes.
Combine 1 3/4 cups flour and salt in a large bowl
Pour in yeast mixture; mix well until dough comes together.
Transfer dough to a floured surface and knead until smooth, about 2 minutes
Add remaining 1/4 cup flour if dough is too sticky.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle
Transfer to a greased pizza pan.
Add your favorite toppings, and bake
Enjoy!
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
¼ teaspoon white sugar
¾ cup lukewarm water
2 cups all-purpose flour, divided
½ teaspoon salt
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Zucchini Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place zucchini into a colander and sprinkle with salt; let drain for 15 minutes, then squeeze out the moisture.
Combine zucchini, 1 cup mozzarella, and 1/2 cup Monterey Jack in a large bowl
Mix in Parmesan and eggs until well combined
Press into the prepared baking dish.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add ground beef and onion to the hot skillet; cook and stir until beef is crumbly, evenly browned, and no longer pink
Drain and discard any excess grease
Stir in tomato sauce and Italian seasoning.
Remove crust from the oven and spoon sauce mixture over top
Scatter bell pepper, mushrooms, black olives, and remaining mozzarella and Monterey Jack over sauce.
Return to the oven and bake until heated through, about 20 minutes
Let sit for 5 minutes before slicing into six pieces and serving.
4 cups shredded unpeeled zucchini
½ teaspoon salt
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese, divided
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 pound ground beef
½ cup chopped onion
1 (15 ounce) can Italian-style tomato sauce
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
1 green bell pepper, chopped
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms
½ cup sliced black olives
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Perfect Every Time Pizza or Calzone Dough
Mix together 1/2 cup lukewarm water and yeast in a small bowl
Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine 1/2 cup water, olive oil, honey, and salt in a large mixing bowl
Add 1 cup flour and mix well
Mix yeast mixture into flour mixture
Add remaining flour, 1 cup at a time, until dough is well combined.
Knead dough on a floured work surface until dough is soft, smooth, and elastic, about 8 minutes
Roll dough into 4 calzone shapes or 1 large pizza.
½ cup lukewarm water
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
½ cup water
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons honey
½ teaspoon salt
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
Caramel Macchiato Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Mix together the graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons of sugar until well combined
Press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan, and 1 inch up the sides
Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes, then remove to cool on a wire rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Beat the softened cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy
Gradually add 1 cup of sugar, beating until blended
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Stir in sour cream, espresso and vanilla
Pour batter into the baked and cooled crust.
Bake cheesecake in the preheated oven for 1 hour and 5 minutes; then turn the oven off, partially open the door and allow the cheesecake to rest for 15 minutes more
Remove from the oven, and run a knife around the edges
Cool cheesecake on a wire rack to room temperature, then cover the springform pan with plastic wrap, and chill in the refrigerator for 8 hours.
To serve, cut the cheesecake into wedges and garnish each slice with whipped cream and caramel sauce.
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup butter, melted
2 tablespoons white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
¼ cup brewed espresso or strong coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
pressurized whipped cream
caramel ice cream topping
Chocolate Cookie Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Combine cookie crumbs, brown sugar, melted butter, and cinnamon in a medium bowl; firmly press mixture evenly onto the bottom and 1 inch up the sides of a 10-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 5 minutes; set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth
Gradually mix in 1 1/4 cups sugar, heavy whipping cream, flour, and 1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat in eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition
Pour 1/3 of the batter into the prepared pan
Top with cookie pieces; pour in remaining batter.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove cake from the oven.
Combine sour cream, remaining 1/4 cup sugar, and remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla; spread evenly on cheesecake
Continue baking for 7 minutes
Turn oven off, leaving cheesecake in for an additional 30 minutes
Remove cheesecake and let cool completely on a wire rack.
Make the chocolate topping: Combine chocolate chips and heavy whipping cream in a saucepan; stir over low heat until chocolate melts, then stir in vanilla
Pour mixture over cheesecake while still warm.
Refrigerate before serving, at least 8 hours or overnight
Remove about 1/2 hour to 1 hour before serving and remove the ring from the springform pan.
2 cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
¼ cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar, divided
⅓ cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups chocolate sandwich cookie crumbs
16 ounces sour cream
1 ½ cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, cocoa, and melted butter
Press onto the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan
Set aside.
Prepare the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add sweetened condensed milk; beat well
Add eggs and vanilla and beat on medium speed until smooth.
Toss 1/3 of the chocolate chips with flour to coat (this keeps them from sinking to the bottom of the cake)
Mix into cheesecake batter
Pour into prepared crust
Sprinkle top with remaining chocolate chips.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven (do not open oven door) and leave the cake in the oven to cool in the oven for another hour
Remove from oven and cool completely.
Refrigerate before removing the sides of the pan
Keep cake refrigerated until time to serve.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup white sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
Easy New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C).
Mix graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl until well combined
Press mixture onto the bottom of a 9-or 10-inch springform pan
Place in the freezer for 10 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Beat in eggs, cornstarch, and vanilla until just combined
Stir in sour cream until blended
Pour into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Turn the oven off and leave cheesecake in the oven with the door ajar for 3 hours
Place cheesecake in the refrigerator to cool completely before slicing
Serve with your favorite topping.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons melted butter
1 cup white sugar, divided
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
Fruit Pizza with Marshmallow Fluff
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Smooth refrigerated sugar cookie dough into an approximately 1/4-inch-thick layer onto an ungreased baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until edges are lightly browned and center is no longer doughy, about 10 minutes.
Blend marshmallow creme and cream cheese in a medium bowl
Spread mixture over crust
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
1 (18 ounce) package refrigerated sugar cookie dough
1 (7 ounce) jar marshmallow creme
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
Guinness and Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter.
Combine crushed cookies, butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cocoa in a small bowl; mix; press into the bottom of the prepared springform pan.
Place cream cheese in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer set to low speed until smooth
While beating, slowly add 1 cup sugar and then eggs, one at a time
Continue beating until smooth.
Combine chocolate chips and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl
Heat in the microwave until chocolate is completely melted, stirring every 30 seconds
Beat chocolate into cream cheese mixture
Add sour cream, salt, beer, and vanilla; blend until smooth
Pour mixture over crust and place the pan into a large, deep baking dish
Fill the dish with water to cover the bottom half of the springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in the water bath in the preheated oven for 45 minutes; turn oven off; leave cheesecake in the oven with oven door slightly ajar another 45 minutes; remove from oven
Run a knife along the edge of the cheesecake to loosen from pan
Chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours.
Melt semisweet chocolate in a small bowl using the microwave
Make chocolate clovers by dropping 3 small drops of melted chocolate close to one another on waxed paper
Drag a toothpick from between two dots outward to make the stem; chill until hardened
Arrange the chocolate clovers on top of the chilled cheesecake for decoration.
1 cup crushed chocolate cookies
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
½ pound semisweet chocolate chips
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup sour cream
1 pinch salt
¾ cup Irish stout beer (e.g. Guinness)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Homemade Veggie Pizza
Sprinkle yeast over warm water in a small bowl
The water should be no more than 100 degrees F (40 degrees C)
Let stand for 5 minutes until yeast softens and begins to form a creamy foam.
Sift flour, sugar, 1 tablespoon oregano, and 1 teaspoon salt into a large bowl
Mix egg and oil into dry ingredients; stir in yeast mixture
When dough has pulled together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes
Lightly oil a large bowl, then place dough in bowl and turn to coat with oil
Cover with a light cloth and let rise in a warm place (80 to 95 degrees F (27 to 35 degrees C)) until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (235 degrees C)
Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Cook and stir diced tomatoes, tomato paste, onion, 1 tablespoon oregano, garlic, onion powder, 1 teaspoon salt, and pepper in a saucepan over medium heat
Cook until sauce has thickened, 15 to 20 minutes.
Punch down dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface
Use a knife to divide dough into two equal pieces--do not tear
Shape dough into rounds and let rest for 10 minutes
Form dough into rectangles, and place onto prepared baking sheet
Spoon tomato sauce over dough
Sprinkle with 1 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese; top with bell pepper, onion, and mushroom
Sprinkle 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese over top.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is browned and crisp and cheese has melted, 20 to 25 minutes.
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup warm water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon white sugar
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 (15 ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
½ small onion, chopped (Optional)
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pinch ground black pepper
1 ¼ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
½ cup chopped green bell pepper (Optional)
½ cup chopped onion (Optional)
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms (Optional)
¼ cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Homemade Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Make crust: Combine graham cracker crumbs, walnuts, and cinnamon sugar in the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of the pan and 1 to 2 inches up the sides
Place in the freezer to set up.
While crust chills, make filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric hand mixer until combined
Add heavy cream slowly while beating on low speed; mix until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating on low speed until combined
Remove crust from the freezer and pour in filling.
Bake in the preheated oven until center appears almost set when gently shaken, 35 to 45 minutes
Remove cheesecake carefully from the oven and place on a wire rack to cool, about 15 minutes.
Slide a butter knife around the outer edge to separate cheesecake from the pan
Let cool to room temperature, about 30 minutes
Unclip the side of the pan and remove the ring
Let cool for another 30 minutes; chill in the refrigerator at least 4 hours to overnight before serving.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup finely ground walnuts
1 tablespoon cinnamon sugar
½ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
3 large eggs, slightly beaten
Pasta/Pizza Sauce
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat
Add garlic and sauté until golden and fragrant, about 1 minute
Stir in tomato paste, water, Parmesan cheese, wine, sugar, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅔ cup water
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
2 tablespoons red wine
2 teaspoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
salt and pepper to taste
Very, Very, Very Good Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease and flour a 9 inch springform pan.
Using an electric mixer, beat the butter, cream cheese and sugar until light and fluffy
Beat in the eggs, one at a time, until blended
Stir in the heavy cream, cornstarch and vanilla.
Wrap the bottom of the springform pan with aluminum foil
Line a roasting pan with a damp kitchen towel
Place cheesecake pan on towel, inside roasting pan, and place roasting pan on oven rack
Fill roasting pan with boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the cheesecake pan
Bake for 60 minutes, or until center of the cheesecake is just firm
Cool at room temperature for 1 hour
Refrigerate until set before removing from pan.
1 cup butter, room temperature
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs, room temperature
2 cups heavy cream
1 ½ tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Killer Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
In a food processor, combine graham crackers, 2 tablespoons sugar, butter and cinnamon
Pulse until smooth
Press into the bottom of an 8x12 inch baking dish.
In the food processor, combine cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, eggs and vanilla
Process until smooth
Pour over crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until filling is set
Allow to cool for 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a small bowl, mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla
Spread over top of cheesecake
Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
1 individual package graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons white sugar
½ cup butter, softened
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
3 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Easy Homemade Pizza Sauce
Gather all ingredients.
Mix together water, tomato paste, and olive oil in a large bowl or jar
Add garlic, oregano, basil, rosemary, salt, and pepper; mix well.
Let sauce stand for several hours to let flavors blend
No cooking is necessary; just spread on dough.
1 ½ cups water
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
⅓ cup extra virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ tablespoon dried oregano
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
salt and ground black pepper to taste
Keto Chicken Crust Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Mix ground chicken, mozzarella, Parmesan, garlic, Italian seasoning, salt, and pepper together in a large bowl with your hands until well combined
Fold in basil.
Place chicken mixture between two pieces of parchment paper
Gently press on the top piece of parchment and spread mixture into a circle or rectangle with a thickness of 1/4 to 1/2 inch
Remove and discard the top piece of parchment paper.
Bake in the preheated oven until starting to brown on the edges, 35 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground chicken
½ cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
¼ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon pepper
1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil
Garden Veggie Pizza Squares
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Roll out crescent rolls onto a large nonstick baking sheet
Stretch and flatten to form a single rectangular shape on the baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 11 to 13 minutes
Allow to cool.
Mix cream cheese with 1/2 of the ranch dressing mix in a medium bowl; add more dressing mix to taste
Spread mixture over cooled crust.
Arrange carrots, bell peppers, broccoli, and green onions on top
Chill in the refrigerator for about 1 hour
Cut into 48 bite-sized squares to serve.
1 (8 ounce) package refrigerated crescent rolls
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (1 ounce) package Ranch-style dressing mix
2 carrots, finely chopped
½ cup chopped red bell peppers
½ cup chopped green bell pepper
½ cup fresh broccoli, chopped
½ cup chopped green onions
Zucchini Pizza Bites
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread zucchini slices in 1 layer on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven until zucchini is tender, about 15 minutes.
Spoon pizza sauce over each zucchini slice and top with pepperoni and mozzarella cheese
Sprinkle herbs over each.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 5 minutes more.
2 zucchini, sliced into 1/4-inch thick rounds
1/4 cup pizza sauce, or more to taste
20 slices pepperoni, or more to taste
1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or as needed
Italian seasoning, dried parsley, or oregano for sprinkling (Optional)
Mary's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, 1/4 cup sugar and margarine until well blended 
Press mixture into a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese with sugar until smooth
In a separate bowl, combine cream, flour, eggs, lemon juice and vanilla
Beat together, and then pour into cream cheese mixture
Mix well
Pour filling into prepared graham cracker crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 65 minutes
Turn off oven, and cool cake in oven for 30 minutes
Prop door open and cool in oven for an additional 30 minutes
Remove from oven and cool completely
Refrigerate for as long as possible before serving.
2 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
¼ cup white sugar
½ cup margarine, softened
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
1 pint heavy cream
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
7 eggs
2 teaspoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Bread and Butter Pizza
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Spread butter generously on both sides of the bread slices and set them out on the prepared baking sheet
Freshly grate Parmigiano-Reggiono cheese on top of each bread slice, pressing the cheese lightly into the butter so it sticks better
Turn bread slices over, so cheese side is down
Top with pizza sauce, making sure to spread it evenly on top of the slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until bottoms start to turn golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes.
Top with mozzarella and 3 pepperoni slices each (or toppings of your choice)
Bake until mozzarella has melted and bottom crust is crispy and well browned, 10 to 12 minutes more.
6 slices Italian bread
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
2/3 cup pizza sauce
6 ounces mozzarella cheese
18 slices pepperoni
Irish Cream Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a large bowl, mix together cookie crumbs, confectioners' sugar, and 1/3 cup cocoa
Add melted butter and stir until well mixed
Pat into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes; set aside.
Increase the oven temperature to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, white sugar, 1/4 cup cocoa, and flour
Beat at medium speed until well blended and smooth
Add eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition
Blend in sour cream and Irish cream liqueur; mixing on low speed
Pour filling over baked crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C), and continue baking for 60 minutes.
With a knife, loosen the cake from the rim of the pan
Let cool, then remove the rim of the pan
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving
If your cake cracks, a helpful tip is to dampen a spatula and smooth the top, then sprinkle with some chocolate wafer crumbs.
1 ½ cups chocolate cookie crumbs
⅓ cup confectioners' sugar
⅓ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¼ cup butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ¼ cups white sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 eggs
½ cup sour cream
¼ cup Irish cream liqueur
New York Italian Style Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Move an oven rack to the middle of the oven.
Beat the cream cheese, ricotta cheese, and sugar in a large mixing bowl with an electric mixer until well combined
Beat in the eggs, one at a time
Add the butter, flour, cornstarch, and vanilla extract; mix until well combined
Fold in the sour cream and lemon juice
Pour the mixture into an ungreased 10-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake in the oven for 2 more hours
Remove from oven and let cool completely
Run a thin spatula around the edge of the cheesecake before springing open the pan to remove
Serve at room temperature or cold; refrigerate leftovers.
1 pound cream cheese, softened
1 pound ricotta cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
¼ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
2 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sour cream
2 tablespoons lemon juice (Optional)
South Shore Bar Pizza
Stir yeast, sugar, and water together in a bowl; let sit for about 10 minutes.
Stir in flour and mix until a dry, shaggy dough forms
Add salt, butter, and 2 tablespoons oil and mix to combine.
Knead with your hands in the bowl until dough comes together, then turn out onto the counter and continue to knead until a stiff but smooth dough forms, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Return dough to the bowl; rub the surface of the dough with a small amount of oil
Cover the bowl and let dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, up to 6 hours
Alternately, place dough in the refrigerator to rise overnight.
Meanwhile, make the pizza sauce
Blend San Marzano tomatoes until smooth using a stick blender or in the jar of an electric blender
Measure out 1 1/2 cups of the tomato puree and place into a bowl
Stir in 1 teaspoon kosher salt, dried oregano, and cayenne pepper
Refrigerate until ready to make the pizzas.
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C)
Drizzle 1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons oil into a 10- to 12-inch pizza pan.
Divide dough into 4 pieces and roll into balls
Keep dough covered when not using
Press 1 dough ball into a round disc and place on the prepared pizza pan
Press and stretch dough flat, almost all the way to the edge of the pan
Poke the dough all over with a fork.
Once the dough is properly punctured, top with about 1/3 cup sauce, spreading all the way to the edge of dough
Top the entire surface with 2 ounces each of Cheddar cheese and Monterey Jack cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbling and bottom of pizza is browned, 10 to 12 minutes
Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 3 more pizzas.
2 1/4 teaspoons dry active yeast (1 packet)
1 1/2 teaspoons white sugar
1 cup water, at about 105 degrees F (41 degrees C)
3 2/3 cups bread flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons corn oil or other vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups tomato puree (from 1 can San Marzano tomatoes), or plain tomato sauce
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, or to taste
1 pinch cayenne pepper
1/2 cup corn oil, divided, to grease pizza pans
8 ounces white Cheddar cheese
8 ounces onterey Jack cheese
Mushroom-Prosciutto Pizza
Preheat oven to 450°.
Heat a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat
Coat pan with cooking spray
Add mushrooms and shallots to pan; sauté 7 minutes or until mushrooms are tender
Add garlic and thyme; sauté 1 minute
Stir in vinegar; remove from heat.
Place crust on the bottom rack of oven
Bake at 450° for 4 minutes.
Place the crust on a baking sheet
Spread mushroom mixture evenly over crust; sprinkle evenly with prosciutto and fontina cheese
Bake at 450° for 6 minutes or until cheese melts.
Tips: For a crisp crust, bake the pizza crust on the lowest rack for a few minutes before adding the toppings
Presliced button mushrooms can substitute for the creminis.
Cooking spray
8 ounces sliced cremini mushrooms
¼ cup finely chopped shallots
1 garlic clove, minced
1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme
2 teaspoons sherry vinegar
1 (10-ounce) Italian cheese-flavored thin pizza crust (such as Boboli)
2 ounces prosciutto, cut into thin strips
⅓ cup (about 1 1/2 ounces) shredded fontina cheese
No-Bake Cheesecake with Sour Cream
Mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl
Fold in whipped topping
Spread into graham cracker crust
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip®), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
Cheesecake-Stuffed Strawberries
Beat cream cheese, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until smooth; spoon into a piping bag or a resealable bag with a corner snipped.
Fill cavities of cored strawberries with the cream cheese mixture
Dip-filled side of strawberries in the crushed graham crackers to coat.
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
½ cup confectioners' sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cored
3 graham crackers, crushed, or as needed
Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake Bites
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Spray 2 12-cup mini muffin tins with nonstick cooking spray, and use your finger to make sure the inside of each cup is well greased
Place muffin tins on a sheet pan.
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract in a bowl until crumb mixture resembles wet sand
Spoon a slightly rounded teaspoon of crumb mixture into the bottom of each cup
Use a spoon to spread crumbs into a relatively even layer.
Set one muffin pan on top of the other and press lightly to compact the crumbs
Repeat with the other pan.
Combine softened cream cheese, lime zest, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl, and beat until light and fluffy with an electric mixer or whisk
Add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, flour, and 1 egg; beat until egg is incorporated and mixture is smooth
Add remaining egg; whisk until smooth.
Transfer batter into a piping bag, and pipe into the muffin tins, filling them all the way to the top
You can use a spoon; but a piping bag is neater and takes much less time
Use a skewer to stir each cup to remove any air bubbles
Tap pan on the counter to settle batter down.
Bake in the preheated oven until batter rises slightly and very small cracks appear on the surface, 20 to 25 minutes
The cheesecakes on the inside may cook more slowly than the ones on the outside, and may not rise as high or crack.
Let cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes
Remove from the tins
Wrap and refrigerate cheesecakes until fully chilled, at least 30 minutes.
To make whipped cream topping, whisk cold cream in a bowl until soft peaks start to form
Add sour cream, and continue whisking until medium-stiff peaks form
Top each cold cheesecake with whipped cream, 3 blueberries, and 1 strawberry slice.
1/2 cup crushed graham cracker crumbs
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 tablespoons butter
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound cream cheese, at room temperature
1 lime
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sour cream
24 slices strawberry
72 fresh blueberries
Eric's Best New York Style Cheesecake
Bring all ingredients to room temperature
Place oven shelf in the center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Wrap the outside of a 9 inch springform pan with foil
Generously butter the inside of the pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth
Mix in sugar and cornstarch
Blend in sour cream and whipping cream
Add amaretto and vanilla
Stir in eggs and egg yolk one at a time, mixing thoroughly between each addition
Pour batter into prepared pan.
Pour mixture into prepared springform pan
Place pan in another pan at least one inch wider than cake pan and add warm water to the outer pan to create a water bath for the cake (this prevents cracks in your cheesecake)
Bake on the center rack of oven for 70 minutes.
Turn oven off and allow to cool with oven door open for one hour
Then remove cake from water bath and chill at least 3 hours before removing from springform pan.
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 ½ cups sour cream
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 ¾ cups white sugar
⅛ cup cornstarch
1 fluid ounce amaretto liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 eggs
1 egg yolks
Valentino's Pizza Crust
Stir water, sugar and yeast together until dissolved
Add the olive oil and the salt
Stir in the flour until well blended
Let dough rest for 10 minutes.
Pat dough into pan or on to a pizza stone using fingers dipped in olive oil
If desired sprinkle basil, thyme or other seasonings on crust
Top with your favorite pizza toppings and bake for 15 to 20 minutes in a preheated 425 degree oven.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 tablespoon white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
Ladyfinger Cheesecake
Place ladyfingers on the bottom and around the edge of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a medium bowl, whip cream until peaks form.
In a large bowl, beat together the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth
Gently fold in the whipped cream.
Spoon 1/2 of cream cheese mixture into springform pan; cover with a layer of lady fingers and add remaining cream cheese mixture.
Layer remaining ladyfingers and top with fruit pie filling
Chill before serving.
3 (3 ounce) packages ladyfingers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (3 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup white sugar
1 pint heavy whipping cream
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
White Chocolate Blueberry Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 275 degrees F (135 degrees C)
Make the crust: In a food processor, blend together the graham cracker crumbs, almonds and sugar until the almonds are ground fine
Pour in the melted butter and caramel while processing, until mixture is combined
Press the mixture onto the bottom, and half way up the side of a 10 inch springform pan.
Make the filling: In a metal bowl over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the white chocolate, stirring until smooth
Remove from heat and set aside
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese and 3/4 cup sugar until smooth
Beat in the eggs and the egg yolks, one at a time
Beat in the flour and the vanilla and blend in the melted white chocolate slowly, beating until the filling is well combined
Pour filling into crust.
Bake in the middle of preheated oven for 1 hour
Then turn off the heat, and crack the oven door an inch, letting the cheesecake cool in the oven to room temperature
Cover loosely and refrigerate overnight before removing from pan.
Make the topping: In a saucepan, combine 1/2 cup sugar and cornstarch
Stir in water and blueberries
Bring to a boil, then simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally
Press through a fine sieve
Stir in lemon juice, allow to cool, and store in a glass jar.
2 cups crushed graham crackers
1 cup slivered almonds
½ cup white sugar
¼ cup clarified butter, melted
2 tablespoons caramel topping
1 pound white chocolate, chopped
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
2 egg yolks
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
¼ cup water
1 pint fresh blueberries
2 teaspoons lemon juice
Key Lime Cheesecake
Combine graham cracker crumbs with butter
Press into the bottom and partially up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan; refrigerate while you prepare the filling.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Fill a shallow pan half full of hot water and place on the lower rack to minimize cracking.
To make the filling: Beat cream cheese, sugar, lime zest, and cornstarch in a large bowl with an electric mixer until smooth and fluffy
Beat in eggs one at a time, blending just until smooth
Add Key lime juice with mixer on low
Finish mixing by hand
Do not overbeat, or the cake will crack during baking
Pour batter into the prepared crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 55 to 65 minutes, or until set.
Turn the oven off, and let cheesecake stand in the oven for 30 minutes with the door open at least 4 inches
Remove from oven.
Refrigerate cheesecake 8 hours to overnight, and up to 3 days.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons butter, melted
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
1 tablespoon grated lime zest
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large eggs
⅔ cup key lime juice
Pizza Crust
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a small bowl
Let stand until creamy, about 5 minutes.
Combine bread flour, olive oil, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture in a mixing bowl; stir well to combine
Beat until a stiff dough has formed
Cover the bowl; let rise at room temperature until dough doubles in volume, about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface
Form dough into a round and roll out into a thin crust
Cover with your favorite sauce and toppings.
Bake pizza in the preheated oven until cheese is bubbly and crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes.
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
2 cups bread flour, plus more for dusting
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 teaspoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Swampland Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix the graham crackers, pecans, and 1/3 cup of sugar in a bowl, and mash the softened margarine into the crumbs until thoroughly combined
Press the crumb mixture into the bottom of a 10-inch springform pan
In a bowl, beat the cream cheese, 2 cups of sugar, eggs, and lemon juice together with an electric mixer set on medium speed until fluffy and well blended; spoon the mixture on top of the crumbs.
Bake in the preheated oven until set, about 1 hour and 10 minutes; remove from oven, and let cool for 30 minutes
Mix the sour cream, 1/2 cup of sugar, and vanilla extract together in a bowl; top the cheesecake with the sour cream mixture
Return to oven, and bake 10 more minutes
Allow to chill in refrigerator at least 4 hours to set.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup chopped pecans
⅓ cup white sugar
6 tablespoons margarine, softened
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
2 cups white sugar
4 eggs, beaten
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Air Fryer Pizza
Preheat the air fryer for 5 minutes at 380 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray the air fryer basket with olive oil spray or line with a parchment liner to avoid sticking.
Remove crust from the can, and cut in half
Shape each piece of dough into a circle and crimping up the edges to form a crust
Make sure it'll fit in your air fryer basket
Carefully transfer one pizza crust to the air fryer basket and spray lightly with olive oil spray
Prick the dough with a fork and precook for 3 minutes.
Spread 3 tablespoons pizza sauce onto the crust in the air fryer basket and sprinkle with 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese
Top with 7 pepperoni slices and half of the onion slices
Sprinkle with basil and red pepper flakes, if using.
Cook until crust is golden brown and crispy and the cheese has melted, 7 to 9 minutes
Keep in mind that cooking times may vary depending on the brand and size of your air fryer, so check frequently to be sure nothing overcooks or burns
Repeat procedure with the second pizza crust
Serve hot.
olive oil cooking spray
1 (13.8 ounce) package refrigerated pizza dough (such as Pillsbury®)
6 tablespoons pizza sauce, divided
10 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
14 slices pepperoni, divided
½ cup onion slices, divided (Optional)
sprinkle of dried basil and red pepper flakes (optional)
Chocolate Cappuccino Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Butter one 9 or 10 inch springform pan.
Combine the chocolate wafer crumbs, softened butter, 2 tablespoons white sugar, and the cinnamon
Mix well and press mixture into the buttered springform pan, set aside.
In a medium sized bowl beat the softened cream cheese until smooth
Gradually add 1 cup white sugar mixing until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time
Beat at low speed until very smooth.
Melt the 8 ounces semisweet chocolate with 2 tablespoons whipping cream in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth.
Add chocolate mixture to cream cheese mixture and blend well
Stir in sour cream, salt, coffee, 1/4 cup coffee liqueur, and vanilla; beat until smooth
Pour mixture into prepared pan.
Bake in the center of oven at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 45 minutes
Center will be soft but will firm up when chilled
Do not over bake
Leave cake in oven with the heat turned off and the door ajar for 45 minutes
Remove cake from oven and chill for 12 hours
Just before serving top cake with mounds of flavored whipped cream and garnish with chocolate leaves
Yields 16 servings.
To Make Flavored Whipped Cream: Beat whipping cream until soft peaks form, then beat in confectioner's sugar and 2 tablespoons coffee liqueur.
To Make Chocolate Leaves: Melt 1 ounce semisweet chocolate in a pan or bowl set over boiling water, stir until smooth
Brush real non-toxic plant leaves (such as orange leaves) on one side with melted chocolate
Freeze until firm and then peel off leaves
Freeze chocolate leaves until needed.
1 cup chocolate cookie crumbs
¼ cup butter, softened
2 tablespoons white sugar
¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
3 eggs
8 (1 ounce) squares semisweet chocolate
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 cup sour cream
¼ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons instant coffee granules dissolved in 1/4 cup hot water
¼ cup coffee flavored liqueur
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons coffee-flavored liqueur
1 (1 ounce) square semisweet chocolate
Cherry Cheesecake
Place condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lemon juice, and vanilla into a mixing bowl; beat until well blended.
Pour mixture into pie crust
Chill in the refrigerator for 5 hours; do not freeze.
Pour cherry pie filling on top of pie; serve.
1 (14 ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
⅓ cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven and prepare the casserole dish: Preheat the oven to 375°F
Grease a 9x13-inch casserole dish with cooking spray
Set it aside.
Cook the pasta: Fill a large pot with water, season the water generously with salt, and bring it up to a boil over high heat
Cook the pasta in the boiling water according to the package instructions, until al dente
Strain the pasta into a colander placed in the sink and set it aside.
In the meantime, cook the sausage: Set the sausage links on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to cut them in half lengthwise
Then, cut them into 1/2-inch thick half moons
If using raw sausages, they may fall apart a little and that's okay
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat
Add the sausages and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring them every 1 to 2 minutes, until evenly browned
You won’t need any oil since the sausages will release enough to keep them from sticking to the skillet
Turn the heat off
Tilt the skillet and use a spoon to scoop out and discard as much grease as possible.
Prepare the sauce: In a large bowl, add the marinara sauce, Parmesan, garlic powder, dried basil, and dried oregano
Mix with a spoon to combine
You can also do this in the same pot used to cook the pasta!
Combine the filling: Add the cooked pasta and sausages, bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, and olives
Stir to combine
I like to use two large spoons to toss the mixture together until everything is coated in the sauce.
Assemble the casserole: Pour the pasta mixture into the prepared casserole dish
Sprinkle shredded mozzarella evenly over it and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake and serve: Tightly cover the casserole with foil and bake for 30 minutes
Remove the foil and turn the oven to broil on high for 2 to 3 minutes, until the cheese is fully melted and lightly browned
Keep a close eye on it so that it doesn’t burn! Let it cool for 10 to 15 minutes before serving
Did you love the recipe? Give us some stars and leave a comment below!
Salt, for pasta cooking water
Cooking spray, for greasing the casserole dish
16 ounces dry penne pasta
8 ounces Italian sausage links
1/2 red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 small red onion, chopped
4 ounces baby bella mushrooms, trimmed and sliced
1/4 cup sliced black olives
24 ounces (2 1/2 cups) store-bought or homemade marinara sauce
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
4 ounces pepperoni slices
Reuben Pizza
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Grease a large pizza pan.
On a lightly floured surface, roll bread dough out into a large circle about 18-inches in diameter; transfer to the prepared pizza pan
Build up the edges, and prick the center all over with a fork so it doesn't form a dome when baking.
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden.
Spread 1/2 of the salad dressing over hot crust
Sprinkle with 1/2 of the Swiss cheese
Arrange corned beef on top of cheese, then drizzle with remaining salad dressing
Top with sauerkraut and remaining Swiss cheese
Sprinkle with caraway seed.
Bake for another 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until cheese melts and toppings are heated through
Sprinkle with chopped pickle
Let stand for 5 minutes before slicing.
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen whole wheat bread dough, thawed
½ cup thousand island dressing
2 cups shredded Swiss cheese
6 ounces deli sliced corned beef, cut into strips
1 cup sauerkraut - rinsed and drained
½ teaspoon caraway seed
¼ cup chopped dill pickles (Optional)
Vanilla Bean Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C), and lightly butter a 10 inch springform pan.
Place the sandwich cookies into a plastic bag, and crush with a rolling pin
Pour the crumbs into a bowl, and mix with the scraped seeds of 1 vanilla bean
Drizzle the crumbs with melted butter and stir to combine
Press the crumb mixture firmly into the bottom and up the sides of the springform pan, and set aside.
Place the softened cream cheese and sugar into the work bowl of an electric mixer, and beat for about 3 minutes on Medium speed, until the mixture is smooth
Beat in the eggs one at a time, incorporating each egg before adding the next one
Add the scraped seeds of 2 vanilla beans, the vanilla extract, sour cream, and heavy cream, and beat on Medium-High speed for about 1 minute, until the mixture is blended and smooth.
Pour the mixture into the cookie crumb crust, leaving about 2 inches of space from the top of the pan for the cake to expand as it bakes.
Place a baking dish onto the bottom rack of the preheated oven, and fill it halfway with boiling water
Place the cheesecake onto the middle rack, above the pan of boiling water, and bake until a small knife inserted into the middle of the cheesecake comes out clean, about 1 hour and 20 minutes.
Turn the oven off and let the cheesecake cool down inside the oven for 1 hour
Cover the cheesecake with plastic wrap, then aluminum foil, and refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight before serving.
1 (18 ounce) package vanilla sandwich cookies (such as Oreo Golden Original Sandwich Cookies®)
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise and seeds scraped
¼ cup butter, melted
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups white sugar
5 eggs
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise and seeds scraped
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
¾ cup sour cream
½ cup heavy cream
Naan Bread Margherita Pizza with Prosciutto
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil.
Place naan breads on the prepared baking sheet; brush each with olive oil
Sprinkle green onion and garlic over each naan
Arrange 4 slices mozzarella cheese onto each naan; top with tomato slices
Season tomatoes with salt and pepper
Top tomato layers with prosciutto, basil, and Parmesan cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until pizza is crispy on the edges and cheese is melted, about 8 minutes
Turn on the oven's broiler and broil until cheese is lightly browned and bubbling, about 2 minutes.
2 naan breads
2 teaspoons olive oil, or as needed
1 green onion, sliced
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
8 slices mozzarella cheese
1 large roma tomato, thinly sliced
salt and ground black pepper to taste
1 slice prosciutto, sliced
6 leaves fresh basil, roughly chopped
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
Warm Fudge-Filled Cheesecake
Beat butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy; add 1/3 cup sugar, beating well
Gradually add flour, beating at low speed until blended
Stir in 1 teaspoon vanilla and pistachios
Press into bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake at 350° for 12 to 15 minutes or until golden
Cool on a wire rack.
Beat cream cheese at medium speed with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1 1/2 cups sugar, beating well
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating just until yellow disappears
Stir in remaining 2 teaspoons vanilla
(Do not overmix.)
Pour half of batter into crust; sprinkle with chocolate morsels to within 3/4 inch of edge
Pour in remaining batter, starting at outer edge and working toward center
Place cheesecake on a baking sheet.
Bake at 350° for 1 hour or until set
Cool on a wire rack 1 hour
Serve slightly warm with sweetened whipped cream, if desired
Garnish, if desired.
½ cup butter or margarine, softened
⅓ cup sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla, divided
⅔ cup chopped pistachios
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 ½ cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 (12-ounce) package semisweet chocolate mini-morsels
Sweetened whipped cream (optional)
Garnish: chocolate shavings
Passover Chocolate Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
In a small bowl, stir together the crushed macaroons and butter
Press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven; remove and cool.
In a medium bowl, stir cream cheese and sugar together until well blended
Stir in matzo meal, milk and vanilla until smooth
Mix in the eggs one at a time.
Combine the chocolate chips and butter in a small microwave-safe dish
Heat at 30 second intervals until melted, stirring at each interval
Stir into the cream cheese batter
Pour the batter over the cooled crust and smooth the top.
Bake in the preheated oven for 40 minutes, or until the center appears solid when jiggled slightly.
2 ½ cups crushed chocolate macaroon cookies
⅓ cup butter, melted
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
4 teaspoons matzo meal
¼ cup milk
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 teaspoon butter
Cheesecake Fruit Salad
Combine milk and pudding mix in the bowl of a stand mixer and mix until incorporated
Slowly blend in cream cheese, increasing the speed to high until mixture is smooth
Mixture should be somewhat thick.
Fold in frozen whipped topping, using a spatula, until well incorporated and mixture is light and creamy
Add grapes, strawberries, bananas, blackberries, raspberries, and blueberries
Fold in gently, until fruit is well coated and evenly mixed in
Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.
1 ½ cups milk
1 (3.4 ounce) package instant cheesecake pudding mix
2 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping, thawed
3 cups grapes
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and sliced
2 large bananas, sliced
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blackberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh raspberries
1 (6 ounce) container fresh blueberries
Special Italian Easter Pizza
Cook and stir Italian sausage in a skillet over medium heat until browned and crumbly, 5 to 8 minutes
Drain excess grease; set sausage aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Oil the bottom and sides of a 10-inch springform pan with olive oil.
Cut 1/3 of the dough off the loaf and set aside under a cloth
Form the remaining dough into a ball; roll ball on a floured work surface into a 14-inch circle
Press circle into the bottom and up the sides of the prepared pan; excess dough will hang over the edges.
Whisk 8 eggs in a 2-cup liquid measure.
Working with only 1/2 of the ingredients at a time, make layers in the pan in the following order: sausage, mozzarella, ham, provolone, salami, pepperoni, ricotta, and Parmesan
Pour in 1/2 of the beaten eggs
Repeat layers once more, starting with sausage and ending with Parmesan
Pour remaining beaten eggs over top.
Roll out remaining bread dough into a 12-inch circle
Place over the pie to form a top crust
Roll and pinch any overhanging bottom crust over top crust to seal in the filling.
Beat remaining egg and water in a small bowl
Brush egg wash over top crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crust is golden brown and the filling is set, 50 to 60 minutes
A toothpick inserted into the middle of the crust should come out without any raw egg.
Remove from the oven and cool in the pan for at least 25 minutes, then release the spring and remove from the pan
Transfer to a serving platter and cut into wedges for serving.
½ pound bulk Italian sausage
1 tablespoon olive oil, or as needed
1 (1 pound) loaf frozen bread dough, thawed
9 large eggs, divided
½ pound sliced mozzarella cheese
½ pound sliced cooked ham
½ pound sliced provolone cheese
½ pound sliced salami
½ pound sliced pepperoni
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon water
Easy Sour Cream Cheesecake
Gather all ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
Place pie crust in a pan.
Cream together cream cheese and sugar.
Add eggs one at a time, blending well.
Add sour cream and vanilla.
Pour into prepared crust in the pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the cake is set and jiggles evenly across the top when lightly shaken, 60 to 70 minutes.
Run a knife around the outside edge but leave the cake in the pan
Let cool on the counter, then place in refrigerator
Remove from pan when completely chilled, and serve.
1 (9 inch) prepared shortbread pie crust
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Homemade Pizza Burgers
Combine beef, tomato paste, salt, sugar, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, pepper, and oregano in a large bowl
Mix thoroughly
Cover and refrigerate to let flavors marry, about 4 hours.
Form beef mixture into 8 thin patties
Place 1 slice of mozzarella cheese on each of 4 patties; leave at least a 1/2-inch border, breaking up the cheese as needed
Place remaining patties on top and pinch edges to seal in the cheese.
Heat a skillet over medium-low heat
Fry burgers until browned and centers reach 165 degrees F (74 degrees C), 6 to 7 minutes per side
Serve on buns.
1 pound ground beef
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon white sugar
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
4 slices mozzarella cheese
4 fresh hamburger buns
Mom's Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, cinnamon and melted margarine
Mix all ingredients well and press into bottom and sides of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth
Blend in the eggs one at a time, then stir in the vanilla and salt
Fold in the sour cream.
Pour batter into springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn off oven and leave cake in for at least 30 minutes.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup margarine
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
2 cups sour cream
Fast and Fabulous Egg and Cottage Cheese Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 10x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Mix together cottage cheese, beaten eggs, Monterey Jack cheese, green chiles, melted butter, flour, bacon, and baking powder in a large bowl until well combined; pour into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Reduce heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and continue baking until a toothpick inserted into the center of casserole comes out clean, about 30 minutes more.
cooking spray
2 (16 ounce) packages cottage cheese
10 large eggs, beaten
1 pound shredded Monterey Jack cheese
1 (4 ounce) can diced green chiles
½ cup butter, melted (Optional)
½ cup all-purpose flour
½ cup cooked crumbled bacon (Optional)
1 teaspoon baking powder
Joyce's Simple Pizza Sauce
Stir tomato sauce, sugar, basil, Italian seasoning, and minced onion together in a saucepan over medium heat; bring to a simmer, reduce heat to low, and cook for 10 minutes.
1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 teaspoon white sugar
½ teaspoon dried basil
¼ teaspoon Italian seasoning
¼ teaspoon minced onion
Chèvre Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C)
Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper.
Stir gingersnap crumbs and melted margarine in a bowl until well combined
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan and place in the freezer.
Beat chèvre and sugar with an electric mixer in a large bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition
Mix in coconut milk
Mix in coconut yogurt, flour, and vanilla just until incorporated
Pour batter into chilled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off, keep the door closed, and allow cheesecake to cool inside for at least 2 hours
Refrigerate for an additional 4 to 6 hours before serving.
7 ounces gluten-free gingersnap cookies, finely crushed
¼ cup margarine, melted
2 pounds chevre (soft goat cheese) at room temperature
1 ½ cups white sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
¾ cup coconut milk
8 ounces cultured coconut milk (coconut milk yogurt)
¼ cup gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 tablespoon gluten-free vanilla extract
Brownie Caramel Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
In a small bowl, mix together brownie mix, 1 egg and water
Spread into the greased pan
Bake for 25 minutes.
Melt the caramels with the evaporated milk over low heat in a heavy saucepan
Stir often, and heat until mixture has a smooth consistency
Reserve 1/3 cup of this caramel mixture, and pour the remainder over the warm, baked brownie crust.
In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese, sugar and vanilla with an electric mixer until smooth
Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition
Pour cream cheese mixture over caramel mixture.
Bake cheesecake for 40 minutes
Chill in pan
When cake is thoroughly chilled, loosen by running a knife around the edge, and then remove the rim of the pan
Heat reserved caramel mixture, and spoon over cheesecake
Drizzle with the chocolate topping.
1 (9 ounce) package brownie mix
1 egg
1 tablespoon cold water
1 (14 ounce) package individually wrapped caramels, unwrapped
1 (5 ounce) can evaporated milk
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 eggs
1 cup chocolate fudge topping
No-Yeast Pizza Crust
Gather all ingredients.
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt together in a bowl; stir in milk and olive oil until a soft dough forms.
Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10 times
Shape dough into a ball; cover with an inverted bowl and let sit for 10 minutes.
Roll dough into a 12-inch circle on a baking sheet.
Add your favorite toppings and bake
Enjoy!
1 ⅓ cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
½ cup fat-free milk
2 tablespoons olive oil
Cheesecake Factory Banana Cheesecake with Homemade Whipped Cream
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Pulse cookies in a food processor until finely crushed
Add margarine and pulse until well blended
Press crumb mixture into the bottom of a 10-inch springform pan
Refrigerate until ready to use.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese in a large bowl with electric mixer at medium speed until creamy
Mix in sugar and cornstarch until well blended
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in bananas, cream, and vanilla until well combined
Pour filling into chilled crust and place the pan on a baking sheet.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Reduce the oven temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue baking until the center is almost set, about 1 hour 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and set on a wire rack.
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
When ready to serve, make the whipped cream: Beat cream in a chilled glass or metal bowl with an electric mixer until frothy
Gradually mix in sugar and vanilla; continue to beat until soft peaks form.
Spread whipped cream over chilled cheesecake.
20 vanilla sandwich cookies (such as Oreo Golden Original Sandwich Cookies®)
¼ cup margarine
24 ounces cream cheese, softened
⅔ cup white sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3 large eggs
¾ cup mashed bananas
½ cup heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 cups heavy whipping cream
¼ cup white sugar, or to taste
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Mini Cheesecakes with Vanilla Wafers
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Line miniature muffin tins (tassie pans) with miniature paper liners.
Crush the vanilla wafers and place 1/2 tablespoon of the crushed vanilla wafers into the paper lined miniature muffin tins.
Cream together with an electric mixer the cream cheese, sugar, eggs and vanilla
Fill each miniature muffin liner with this mixture, almost to the top.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 15 minutes
Cool and then top with a teaspoonful of cherry (or any other flavor) pie filling.
1 (12 ounce) package vanilla wafers
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
¾ cup white sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Pumpkin Cheesecake II
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Combine the graham cracker crumbs, ground pecans, 2 tablespoons white sugar, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, and the melted butter or margarine and mix well
Firmly press mixture into one 9 inch springform pan.
Combine 3/4 cup of the white sugar, the pumpkin, 3 egg yolks, ground cinnamon, ground mace, ground ginger and salt in a medium bowl
Mix well, and set aside.
Beat cream cheese with an electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons white sugar and mix well
Add the whole egg, remaining egg yolk and the whipping cream, beating well
Add cornstarch and vanilla and lemon flavorings, beat batter until smooth
Add pumpkin mixture and mix well
Pour batter into the prepared pan.
Bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 50 to 55 minutes
Do not overbake
Center may be soft but it will firm up when chilled
Let cheesecake cool on a wire rack, then refrigerate.
¾ cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup ground pecans
2 tablespoons white sugar
2 tablespoons brown sugar
¼ cup butter
¾ cup white sugar
¾ cup canned pumpkin
3 egg yolks
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon ground mace
½ teaspoon ground ginger
¼ teaspoon salt
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
⅜ cup white sugar
1 egg
1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 tablespoon cornstarch
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon lemon extract
Butter Pecan Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C).
Combine graham cracker crumbs, 1/2 cup pecans, butter, and 1/3 cup white sugar in a food processor; pulse until evenly combined
Press mixture in the bottom and partly up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and 1/2 cup white sugar together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition
Add sour cream and vanilla extract and mix well; fold in 1 cup pecans
Pour cream cheese mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) and continue baking for 50 minutes more
Turn off oven, open door slightly, and let cake sit in oven for 1 hour.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
½ cup chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
⅓ cup white sugar
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
3 eggs
2 cups sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup chopped pecans
PHILADELPHIA Classic Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
Mix crumbs, butter, and 3 tablespoons sugar until combined; press firmly onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, mixing on low speed until just blended
Pour over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until center is almost set, about 55 minutes
Loosen cake from the pan rim; cool before removing rim.
Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups HONEY MAID Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter or margarine, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
4 (8 ounce) packages PHILADELPHIA Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs
Foolproof Pan Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl
Mix with hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains
(The bowl should be at least 4 to 6 times the volume of the dough to account for rising.)
Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that the edges are well sealed, then let rest at cool room temperature (no warmer than 75°F) for at least 8 hours and up to 24
Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl
In a hot kitchen, the dough may overproof near the end of that range.
Sprinkle top of dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a well-floured work surface
Divide dough into 2 pieces and form each into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.
Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron skillets or round cake pans (see note)
Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn to coat evenly with oil
Using a flat palm, press dough around the pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom and edges of the pan
Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let dough sit at room temperature for 2 hours (at room temperatures above 75°F, the dough may require less time to rise; at temperatures below 65°F/18°C, it may require more time)
After the first hour, adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat oven to 550°F (290°C).
After 2 hours, dough should be mostly filling the pan up to the edges
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner, popping any large bubbles that appear
Lift up one edge of the dough to let any air bubbles underneath escape, then repeat, moving around the dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is evenly spread around the pan.
Top each round of dough with 3/4 cup sauce, spreading sauce to the very edge with the back of a spoon
Sprinkle evenly with mozzarella cheese, all the way to the edges
Season with salt
Add other toppings as desired
Drizzle with olive oil and scatter a few basil leaves over the top of each pizza, if desired.
Transfer pan to oven and bake until top is golden brown and bubbly and bottom is golden brown and crisp when you lift it with a thin spatula, 12 to 15 minutes
Immediately sprinkle with grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese, if using
Using a thin spatula, loosen pizza and peek underneath
If bottom is not as crisp as desired, place pan over a burner and cook on medium heat, moving the pan around to cook evenly until it is crisp, 1 to 3 minutes
Remove the pizzas and transfer to a cutting board
Cut each pizza into 6 slices and serve immediately.
400g bread flour (14 ounces; about 2 1/2 cups), plus more for dusting
10g kosher salt (0.35 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more for sprinkling
4g instant yeast (0.15 ounces; about 1 teaspoon), such as SAF Instant Yeast
275g water (9.5 ounces; about 1 cup plus 3 tablespoons)
8g extra-virgin olive oil (0.25 ounces; about 2 teaspoons), plus more to coat pans and for drizzling
1 1/2 cups pizza sauce, such as our New York–style pizza sauce
12 ounces grated full-fat, low moisture (dry) mozzarella cheese (see note)
Toppings as desired
Small handful torn fresh basil leaves (optional)
2 ounces grated Parmesan or Pecorino Romano cheese (optional)
Marbled Pumpkin Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, mix together the crushed gingersnap cookies, pecans, and butter
Press into the bottom, and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake crust 10 minutes in the preheated oven
Set aside to cool.
In a medium bowl, mix together the cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar, and vanilla just until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time, blending well after each
Set aside 1 cup of the mixture
Blend 1/4 cup sugar, pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg into the remaining mixture.
Spread the pumpkin flavored batter into the crust, and drop the plain batter by spoonfuls onto the top
Swirl with a knife to create a marbled effect.
Bake 55 minutes in the preheated oven, or until filling is set
Run a knife around the edge of the pan
Allow to cool before removing pan rim
Chill for at least 4 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed gingersnap cookies
½ cup finely chopped pecans
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
¾ cup white sugar, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs
1 cup canned pumpkin
¾ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
Gourmet Chicken Pizza
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Lightly grease a pizza pan or medium baking sheet.
Place chicken in a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook until no longer pink, and juices run clear
Cool, then either shred or chop into small pieces.
Unroll dough, and press into the prepared pizza pan or baking sheet
Bake crust for 7 minutes in the preheated oven, or until it begins to turn golden brown
Remove from oven.
Spread ranch dressing over partially baked crust
Sprinkle on mozzarella cheese
Place tomatoes, green onion, and chicken on top of mozzarella cheese, then top with Cheddar cheese
Return to the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, until cheese is melted and bubbly.
2 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated pizza crust
½ cup Ranch-style salad dressing
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
1 cup chopped tomatoes
¼ cup chopped green onions
Thin Crust Pizza Dough
Mix warm water and sugar together in a bowl; add yeast
Set aside until yeast mixture becomes foamy, about 10 minutes.
Pour yeast mixture into a large bowl; add flour, olive oil, and salt
Knead dough for 6 to 8 minutes, adding more flour to keep dough from sticking to your hands if needed
Cover bowl and let sit for 20 to 30 minutes.
Grease 2 pizza pans or baking sheets.
Divide dough in half
Make each half into a ball shape and roll each into a flat, circular crust using a rolling pin.
Place 1 piece dough over your hands with your knuckles turned upward directly underneath the center of the dough
Using your knuckles and backs of your hands, toss the dough into the air in a circular motion, spinning the dough
This thins the center of the dough and forms the padded edge of the pizza
When the edge of the dough is about 1/4-inch thick, place the dough onto the pan
Pizza diameter will be about 10 inches
Repeat with other piece of dough.
1 cup warm water (100 to 110 degrees F/40 to 45 degrees C)
¼ cup white sugar
2 ¼ teaspoons active dry yeast
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour, or more as needed
1 tablespoon olive oil
½ teaspoon salt
Two-Ingredient Pizza Dough
Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C).
Mix flour and Greek yogurt together in a bowl to form a dough; transfer to a work surface floured with self-rising flour
Knead dough, adding more flour as needed to keep dough from being too sticky, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Spray a 12-inch pizza pan with cooking spray and spread dough to the edges of the pan.
Bake pizza crust in preheated oven for 5 to 7 minutes; add your favorite toppings and return to the preheated oven
Bake until crust is lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes more.
1 ½ cups self-rising flour, plus more for kneading
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
cooking spray
Pizza Roses
Preheat oven to 375° and spray a muffin tin with cooking spray.
On a lightly floured surface, unroll crescent dough and separate into 4 rectangles
If the dough has perforated edges, pinch together to seal.
Using a pizza cutter, cut each rectangle of dough lengthwise into three 1”-wide strips
Spread a very thin layer of sauce onto each strip
Sprinkle with cheeses, then layer pepperoni halves on top half of each strip so that they’re slightly overlapping and the top halves of the pepperoni slices are off the pastry
Fold up bottom half of dough and tightly roll.
Transfer to prepared muffin tin and bake until golden, 10-15 minutes.
Serve warm.
1 8-oz. tube crescent dough
1/4 c. pizza sauce
1 c. shredded mozzarella
1/2 c. freshly grated Parmesan
4 oz. large pepperoni slices, cut in half
1 tsp. Italian seasoning
No-Bake Cheesecake with Cool Whip
Gather all ingredients.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, and lemon extract in a large bowl; beat with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy.
Fold in whipped topping.
Pour mixture into graham cracker crust and smooth evenly.
Top with pie filling and refrigerate until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Slice and enjoy!
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon lemon extract (Optional)
1 (8 ounce) container frozen whipped topping (such as Cool Whip), thawed
1 (9 inch) prepared graham cracker crust
1 (21 ounce) can strawberry pie filling
Chicken Pizza
In a large skillet, cook and stir chicken in oil over medium heat 10-15 minutes or until no longer pink.
Place the crust on a lightly greased 12-in
pizza pan
Spread with pesto; top with the chicken, tomato, beans and cheeses
Bake at 400° for 10-12 minutes or until cheese is melted.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 prebaked 12-inch pizza crust
1/4 cup prepared pesto
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup canned black beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan cheese
Satay Chicken Pizza
Heat oil in a skillet over high heat
Saute chicken pieces in hot oil for 6 to 7 minutes
Do not overcook!
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
To Assemble Pizza: Spoon 1/4 of peanut sauce onto each pita
Sprinkle 1/4 of the browned chicken and 1/4 of the scallions on top of each
Top each 'pizza' with 1 slice cheese
Place on a lightly greased cookie sheet and bake in the preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes, until the cheese is melted and bubbly
Let stand for 1 to 2 minutes outside of oven before you cut with a pizza cutter.
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
2 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves, chopped
1 cup prepared Thai peanut sauce
1 bunch green onions, chopped
4 small (4 inch) pita breads
4 slices provolone cheese
Peanut Butter and Jelly Cheesecake
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C)
In a medium bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar and melted butter
Mix well and press into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven and allow to cool.
In a large bowl, beat cream cheese, sugar, peanut butter and flour together until smooth
Mix in eggs one at a time
Blend in milk
Pour batter into prepared crust.
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Reduce temperature to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C) and continue to bake for 40 minutes
Let cool to room temperature, then refrigerate for at least 4 hours before removing from pan
Stir jelly until smooth and drizzle over cake in a lattice design.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
2 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup white sugar
⅓ cup crunchy peanut butter
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
4 eggs
½ cup milk
½ cup any flavor fruit jam
Homemade Pepperoni Pizza
Preheat the oven to 500°F: If you are using a pizza stone, preheat it in the oven for at least 20 minutes so it is nice and hot as well.
Make the sauce: If you are using my sauce recipe, stir together the ingredients
The sauce recipe makes just enough for one large pizza
You can easily double it if you are making more than one pizza.
Roll out the dough: Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface
If it's hard to roll, let it rest for 5 minutes so it can come to room temperature
For a large pizza, I like to roll my dough into about a 14-inch diameter circle.
Add the toppings: Transfer the dough to a lightly dusted pizza peel
Alternatively, fit it into a large cast-iron
Add sauce in a light layer all over the pizza, leaving about 1/4-inch crust around the edges
Chop half of the pepperoni and sprinkle it over the sauce
Top the pizza with grated cheese and the rest of the pepperoni
Season with black pepper.
Cook the pizza: If you're using a pizza stone, carefully slide pizza into the center of the preheated pizza stone
Cook for 6 minutes, then rotate the pizza halfway so it cooks evenly
Cook for another 6 to 8 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown and charred in spots
If you're using a skillet , press the dough into a cast iron skillet and add toppings
Place the skillet over a high heat burner for 2 minutes to get it preheated and get the crust cooking right away
Then transfer to a 500 °F oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown.
Slice and serve: Use pizza peel to slide pizza out onto a cutting board
Let the pizza rest for a minute and slice into pieces
Season with fresh oregano (optional)
Serve while warm with a side salad.
Make the honey butter (optional): Stir together the softened butter and honey, then serve alongside the pizza for crust dipping
Store leftover pizza in the fridge for up to three days
Reheat pizza in a sturdy skillet over medium heat with a drizzle of oil
Cover skillet with a lid and cook until the cheese has melted and crust is crispy.
16 ounces pizza dough, store-bought or homemade (I like this no-knead version , though note that this recipe makes enough dough for 2 pizzas)
1/2 cup pizza sauce (see below)
18-20 slices pepperoni
12 ounces mozzarella cheese, grated
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon fresh oregano, optional
Flour for rolling and shaping dough
For the Quick Pizza Sauce:
1/2 cup tomato sauce (no salt)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon granulated garlic
1/2 teaspoon granulated onion
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon olive oil
For the Honey Butter (Dad Add):
1/4 cup softened butter
2 tablespoons honey
No-Bake Creamsicle Cheesecake
In a large bowl, whisk together orange Jell-O and boiling water until Jell-O is completely dissolved
Set aside to cool completely.
Make crust: In a medium bowl, mix together Oreo crumbs, butter, and salt
Press into the bottom of an 8" springform pan and up the sides.
Make filling: In another large bowl, beat cream cheese and sour cream until smooth, then add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt
Fold whipped topping into cream cheese mixture, then pour half of mixture into cooled Jell-O
Whisk until smooth.
Onto the crust, alternate pouring 1/4 cup dollops of cream cheese and Jell-O mixtures until both mixtures are used up
With a butter knife, gently swirl the layers
Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours, or until firm.
To serve: When firm, pipe dollops of whipped topping around the outside of the cheesecake, and serve.
24 whole Golden Oreo cookies, crushed
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch of kosher salt
1 (3-oz.) box orange Jell-O
1 c. boiling water
1 1/2 c. whipped topping
2 (8-oz.) blocks cream cheese, softened
1/4 c. sour cream
1 c. powdered sugar
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 c. whipped topping
Easy Upside-Down Pizza Casserole
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef in the hot skillet until browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain and discard grease.
Stir sauce, mushrooms, and olives into beef in the skillet
Cook and stir until heated through, about 2 minutes
Transfer mixture to a 2-quart rectangular baking dish
Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese.
Flatten each biscuit with your hands and arrange on top of cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until biscuits are golden, 15 to 17 minutes.
1 ½ pounds lean ground beef
1 (15 ounce) can pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained (Optional)
¼ cup sliced pitted ripe olives
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
1 (10 ounce) can refrigerated biscuit dough
Leftover Pizza Breakfast Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Spray a 9x9-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Arrange pizza squares in the prepared baking dish
Mix eggs, milk, mozzarella cheese, onion, butter, garlic, oregano, and salt together in a large bowl; pour over pizza pieces
Top with Parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes
Remove foil and continue baking until eggs are set and Parmesan cheese is melted, about 20 more minutes.
cooking spray
3 slices leftover pizza, cut into 3/4-inch squares
4 eggs, beaten
1 cup milk
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
⅓ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, or to taste
¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, or to taste
Impossibly Easy Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C)
Spray a 9x13-inch (3-quart) glass baking dish with cooking spray.
Stir Bisquick mix and milk in a medium bowl until soft dough forms
Drop 1/2 of dough by the spoonful evenly into the bottom of the prepared baking dish (dough will not completely cover the bottom of the dish).
Drizzle about 1 cup pizza sauce over dough
Arrange 1/2 of the pepperoni slices evenly over the sauce
Top with 1 cup cheese
Repeat layers with remaining dough, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and cheese.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, biscuits in the center are cooked, and cheese in the center is bubbly, 25 to 30 minutes.
cooking spray
3 ⅓ cups Original Bisquick mix
1 cup milk
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (7 ounce) package sliced pepperoni
1 (8 ounce) package shredded mozzarella cheese
Best No-Bake Cheesecake
Stir together graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, and cinnamon in a small bowl
Add melted butter and mix well
Press into the bottom of an 8- or 10-inch springform pan
Chill until firm.
Beat together cream cheese and lemon juice in a medium bowl until soft
Add whipping cream and beat with an electric mixer until the batter becomes thick
Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff.
Pour into chilled crust, and top with pie filling or fresh fruit
Chill for several hours or overnight.
Just before serving, remove the sides of the springform pan.
1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅓ cup butter, melted
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 pint heavy whipping cream
⅓ cup white sugar
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Macaroni and Cheese Pizza Bake
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally until cooked through but firm to the bite, about 8 minutes
Drain and return pasta to pot
Add butter, milk, and cheese mix to macaroni; stir until evenly mixed.
Stir eggs into macaroni and cheese until incorporated
Add 1 cup mozzarella cheese; stir until just combined.
Spread macaroni and cheese mixture into the prepared baking dish; top with pasta sauce
Sprinkle the remaining 2 cups mozzarella cheese over sauce
Cover the cheese layer with pepperoni and season with oregano.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted, about 30 minutes.
2 (7.25 ounce) packages macaroni and cheese mix
½ cup butter
½ cup milk
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 (16 ounce) jar pizza sauce (such as Prego® Traditional Italian Sauce)
1 (4 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, or to taste
dried oregano, or to taste
Pepperoni Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Cook the ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until no longer pink, breaking the meat apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil
Cook the egg noodles in the boiling water until cooked through yet slightly firm, about 5 minutes; drain.
Mix the noodles with the cooked ground beef, spaghetti sauce, black olives, mushrooms, pepperoni, and 1/2 of the mozzarella cheese in a large mixing bowl
Spoon the mixture into a 9x13-inch baking dish and top with remaining cheese
Cover the dish with foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until the casserole is bubbling, 30 to 45 minutes.
1 pound ground beef
1 (8 ounce) package uncooked egg noodles
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce, or as needed
1 (2.25 ounce) can sliced black olives, drained
1 (2.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 (8 ounce) package sliced pepperoni, coarsely chopped
20 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
Italian Cream Cheese and Ricotta Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix cream cheese and ricotta cheese together in a mixing bowl until well combined
Add eggs, sugar, butter, flour, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla; mix to combine
Stir in sour cream and pour into the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour
Turn the oven off; allow cheesecake to cool in the oven with the door closed for 1 hour more to prevent cracking
Cool cheesecake completely in the refrigerator before serving.
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese
4 large eggs
1 ½ cups white sugar
½ cup butter, melted and cooled
3 tablespoons flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream
Bubble Pizza
Gather ingredients
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place ground beef in a large, deep skillet
Cook and stir over medium-high heat until crumbly and evenly browned
Stir in pepperoni; cook and stir until browned.
Drain excess fat
Stir in pizza sauce
Remove from heat and set aside.
Cut each dough round into quarters and place in the bottom of the prepared baking dish.
Spread meat mixture evenly over dough
Sprinkle with onion, olives, and mushrooms.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes
Sprinkle top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheese
Continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 minutes more
Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.
1 pound ground beef
¼ pound sliced pepperoni sausage
1 (14 ounce) can pizza sauce
2 (12 ounce) packages refrigerated buttermilk biscuit dough
½ onion, sliced and separated into rings
1 (10 ounce) can sliced black olives
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms
1 ½ cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese
Kid's Favorite Pizza Casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook elbow macaroni in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, 8 minutes
Drain.
Cook and stir ground beef in a skillet over medium heat until meat is crumbly and browned, about 10 minutes; drain excess grease.
Mix cooked ground beef, macaroni, pizza sauce, tomato sauce, and mushrooms in a bowl
Layer half the macaroni mixture into a 9x12-inch baking dish; top with 1/2 the mozzarella cheese
Layer remaining macaroni mixture over the top; sprinkle remaining mozzarella cheese over macaroni mixture
Cover dish with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese has melted and casserole is bubbling, about 35 minutes
Let cool for 3 to 5 minutes before serving.
2 cups elbow macaroni
1 pound ground beef
1 (14 ounce) jar pizza sauce
1 (4 ounce) can tomato sauce
1 (4.5 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese
Perfect Cheesecake Everytime
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Whisk together the crushed graham crackers, the 1 teaspoon sugar, cinnamon, and walnuts
Stir in the butter
Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from oven; allow crust to cool.
Beat the cream cheese with the eggs on medium-low with an electric mixer until smooth
Beat in the 1 cup sugar and vanilla
Fold in the sour cream just until blended
Do not overmix; ovemixing causes the cheesecake to crack
Pour into the cooled crust.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes
Turn oven off
When the cheesecake has reached room temperature, chill in refrigerator for 8 hours before serving.
1 ½ cups crushed graham crackers
1 teaspoon white sugar
⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon (Optional)
¼ cup chopped pecans (Optional)
4 tablespoons melted butter
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
3 eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (16 ounce) container sour cream
Pizza Casserole
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil
Cook egg noodles in boiling water until tender yet firm to the bite, 7 to 9 minutes
Drain and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat
Cook and stir beef, onion, bell pepper, and garlic in the hot skillet until beef is browned and crumbly, 5 to 7 minutes
Drain excess fat from the skillet
Stir in cooked egg noodles, pizza sauce, pepperoni, and milk until well combined
Pour mixture into a 2-quart casserole dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes
Sprinkle with cheese and continue baking until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.
2 cups uncooked egg noodles
½ pound lean ground beef
1 onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
16 ounces pizza sauce
1 cup sliced pepperoni sausage
1/4 cup milk
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese
Our Best Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).
Mix graham crumbs, butter, and 1/4 cup sugar together in a large bowl.
Press crumbs onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese and remaining sugar in large bowl with mixer until blended
Add sour cream and vanilla; mix well.
Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each addition just until blended.
Pour mixture over crust.
Bake in the preheated oven until the center is almost set, about 1 hour to 1 hour 10 minutes
Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim
Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Top with pie filling before serving.
1 ¾ cups Honey Maid Graham Cracker Crumbs
⅓ cup butter, melted
1 ¼ cups sugar, divided
3 (8 ounce) packages Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 cup Breakstone's or Knudsen Sour Cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 large eggs
1 (21 ounce) can cherry pie filling
Four Cheese Margherita Pizza
Stir together olive oil, garlic, and salt; toss with tomatoes, and allow to stand for 15 minutes
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Brush each pizza crust with some of the tomato marinade
Sprinkle the pizzas evenly with Mozzarella and Fontina cheeses
Arrange tomatoes overtop, then sprinkle with shredded basil, Parmesan, and feta cheese.
Bake in preheated oven until the cheese is bubbly and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
¼ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon minced garlic
½ teaspoon sea salt
8 Roma tomatoes, sliced
2 (12 inch) pre-baked pizza crusts
8 ounces shredded Mozzarella cheese
4 ounces shredded Fontina cheese
10 fresh basil leaves, washed, dried
½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
½ cup crumbled feta cheese
New York Cheesecake III
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Lightly coat a 10 inch springform pan with spray oil
Note: You could use a 9x13 inch pan instead.
To make the crust: Combine 1 1/2 cups flour, 1/3 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 cup butter or margarine
Spread to the edges of the pan
Prick all over with a fork, then bake 15 minutes at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Allow to cool.
Increase oven temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
In a large bowl, combine cream cheese, 1 3/4 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons flour, 5 eggs and the yolks and mix thoroughly
Add cream and mix only enough to blend.
Pour filling over crust and bake for 10 minutes at 475 degrees F (245 degrees C)
Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C) and continue to bake for one hour
Turn oven off, but leave cake in for another hour
Don't worry if it looks a little jiggly in the center.
Chill overnight
This is imperative! If desired, top with your favorite fruit or serve plain.
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
⅓ cup white sugar
1 egg, beaten
½ cup butter, softened
2 ½ pounds cream cheese, softened
1 ¾ cups white sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2 egg yolks
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
Chantal's New York Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together in a medium bowl until well combined.
Press onto the bottom of the prepared pan to make a packed crust.
Mix cream cheese and sugar together in a large bowl until smooth
Blend in milk, then mix in eggs, one at a time, until just combined.
Add sour cream, flour, and vanilla; mix until smooth.
Pour filling onto prepared crust
Bake in the preheated oven for 1 hour.
Turn the oven off; let cheesecake cool in the oven with the door closed for 5 to 6 hours to prevent cracking
Chill in the refrigerator until serving.
15 graham crackers, crushed
2 tablespoons butter, melted
4 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 ½ cups white sugar
¾ cup milk
4 eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Rhode Island-Style Pizza Strips aka Bakery Pizza
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease two baking sheets or line with parchment paper.
Roll or press 1/2 of the pizza dough out into a rectangle on one of the prepared baking sheets
Repeat with the remaining pizza dough.
Mix crushed tomatoes, pepperoni, 1/4 cup olive oil, Romano cheese, sugar, salt, garlic, oregano, and black pepper in a bowl; stir to dissolve sugar and salt
Spread 1/2 of the sauce evenly over each crust, spreading it all the way to the edges
Drizzle 2 tablespoons olive oil over each pizza.
Bake in the preheated oven until the crusts are crisp on the bottom and the sauce looks dry at the edges but is still moist in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes.
Let cool to room temperature on wire racks, about 20 minutes
Cut each cooled pizza into eight 9x3-inch strips.
2 (16-ounce) packages prepared pizza dough
1 (28 ounce) can crushed tomatoes
½ cup minced pepperoni (Optional)
1/2 cup olive oil, divided
3 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
3 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon salt
¾ teaspoon minced garlic
¾ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Apple Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Make the crust: Mix graham cracker crumbs, pecans, melted butter, sugar, and cinnamon together in a bowl until well combined
Press into the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan.
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 minutes
Remove from the oven; leave the oven on.
Make the filling: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a mixing bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition
Beat in vanilla extract
Pour filling into the baked crust.
Make the topping: Place apples in a bowl.
Stir sugar and cinnamon together in a smaller bowl; pour over apples and toss to coat
Spoon sugared apples over filling, then sprinkle pecans over top.
Bake in the oven until edges are puffed, 60 to 70 minutes
Run the tip of a table knife around the edges of the pan, set the pan on a wire rack, and allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature, about 1 hour
Refrigerate until completely chilled, 4 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
½ cup finely chopped pecans
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 large eggs
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups apples - peeled, cored and thinly sliced
⅓ cup white sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ cup chopped pecans
Spaghetti Pizza
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil
Cook spaghetti in the boiling water, stirring occasionally, until tender yet firm to the bite, 8 to 10 minutes
Drain and rinse with cold water.
Mix 1/2 cup mozzarella, milk, egg, salt, and garlic salt together in a large bowl
Add drained spaghetti and mix until well combined
Spread mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes
Remove from the oven and reduce the temperature to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Spread spaghetti sauce over noodle mixture
Sprinkle with oregano and basil, then top with remaining 1 1/2 cups mozzarella
Arrange pepperoni over cheese.
Return to the oven and bake until cheese is bubbly and beginning to brown, about 30 minutes
Let stand for 5 minutes before cutting.
cooking spray
1 (8 ounce) package spaghetti, broken into 2-inch pieces
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
¼ cup milk
1 large egg, beaten
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon garlic salt
1 (16 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon dried basil
4 ounces pepperoni sausage, sliced
Zucchini Pizza Bake
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C)
Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Place zucchini into a colander and sprinkle with salt; let drain for 15 minutes, then squeeze out the moisture.
Combine zucchini, 1 cup mozzarella, and 1/2 cup Monterey Jack in a large bowl
Mix in Parmesan and eggs until well combined
Press into the prepared baking dish.
Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium-high heat
Add ground beef and onion to the hot skillet; cook and stir until beef is crumbly, evenly browned, and no longer pink
Drain and discard any excess grease
Stir in tomato sauce and Italian seasoning.
Remove crust from the oven and spoon sauce mixture over top
Scatter bell pepper, mushrooms, black olives, and remaining mozzarella and Monterey Jack over sauce.
Return to the oven and bake until heated through, about 20 minutes
Let sit for 5 minutes before slicing into six pieces and serving.
4 cups shredded unpeeled zucchini
½ teaspoon salt
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided
1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese, divided
½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 pound ground beef
½ cup chopped onion
1 (15 ounce) can Italian-style tomato sauce
1 teaspoon Italian seasoning
1 green bell pepper, chopped
½ cup sliced fresh mushrooms
½ cup sliced black olives
Jan's Jalapeno Popper Pizza
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Place the bacon in a large skillet and cook over medium-high heat, turning occasionally, until evenly browned, about 10 minutes
Remove bacon with a slotted spoon to drain on paper towels, reserving drippings in the pan.
Saute onion in bacon drippings until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes
Add garlic; continue to saute until garlic is golden, 2 to 3 minutes
Season the onion mixture with cumin, oregano, and black pepper
Stir cream cheese and sour cream into the onion mixture until smooth and spreadable.
Spread the cream cheese mixture evenly over the pizza dough; top with mozzarella and Cheddar cheeses
Arrange bacon and jalapeno pepper rings over the cheese layer
Sprinkle parsley over the entire pizza.
Bake in preheated oven until crust is firm and crispy and the cheese is browned and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
8 slices bacon, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, chopped
½ teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (8 ounce) package reduced-fat cream cheese, cut into cubes
¼ cup sour cream
1 prepared 16-inch pizza dough pastry
1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese, or more to taste
½ cup shredded reduced-fat Cheddar cheese
4 jalapeno peppers, sliced into thin rings
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
Homemade Pizza
In large bowl, dissolve yeast and sugar in water; let stand for 5 minutes
Add oil and salt
Stir in flour, 1 cup at a time, until a soft dough forms.
Turn onto a floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, 2-3 minutes
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top
Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.
Punch down dough; divide in half
Press each half into a greased 12-in
pizza pan
Combine the tomato sauce, oregano and basil; spread over each crust
If desired, add toppings of your choice
Sprinkle with cheese.
Bake at 400° for 25-30 minutes or until crust is lightly browned.
1 package (1/4 ounce) active dry yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
1-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
3-1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour
1 can (15 ounces) tomato sauce
3 teaspoons dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried basil
2 cups toppings of your choice (like sliced pepperoni, cooked crumbled sausage, chopped onion, sliced mushrooms, chopped green pepper or sliced olives), optional
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
Easy Homemade Pizza Dough
Gather all ingredients
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C), and lightly grease a pizza pan.
Place warm water in a bowl; add yeast and sugar
Mix and let stand until creamy, about 10 minutes.
Add flour, oil, and salt to the yeast mixture; beat until smooth
You can do this by hand or use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook to make it easier.
Let rest for 5 minutes.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and pat or roll into a 12-inch circle.
Transfer to the prepared pizza pan.
Spread crust with sauce and toppings of your choice.
Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 ½ cups bread flour
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon salt
Fast English Muffin Pizzas
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).
Arrange the English muffin halves cut-side up on a baking sheet
Spread pizza sauce evenly on top of each one; sprinkle with mozzarella cheese and top with pepperoni slices.
Bake in the preheated oven until cheese is melted and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes.
4 English muffins, split
½ cup canned pizza sauce
2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
16 slices pepperoni sausage
Easy Baileys Cheesecake
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C)
Mix together cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and melted butter; press mixture into bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 ¾ inch high sides
Bake crust in preheated oven until golden brown, about 8 minutes
Transfer crust to a rack to cool
Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla in large bowl with an electric mixer until blended
Beat in 1 cup sour cream and Irish cream liqueur
Add eggs one at a time, beating just until combined
Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake in preheated oven until edges are puffed, and center no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 to 1 ½ hours
Transfer cheesecake to a rack, and cool for 10 minutes
Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 1 cup sour cream and 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl until smooth
Press down edges of cheesecake, and spread mixture on top
Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool.
Cover and refrigerate cheesecake for 8 hours to overnight.
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons white sugar
3 tablespoons melted butter
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese
1 cup white sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
⅓ cup Irish cream liqueur
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup white sugar
Mom's Cheesecake Cookie Bars
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
Mix flour, walnuts, butter, and brown sugar together in a bowl
Line a 9x13-inch baking pan with half the crust mixture.
Bake in the preheated oven until browned, about 15 minutes
Remove crust and leave oven on.
Mix cream cheese and white sugar together in another bowl using an electric mixer until blended
Add eggs, milk, lemon juice, and vanilla extract; mix until blended
Pour on top of the baked crust
Sprinkle with remaining crust mixture.
Bake in the hot oven until set, about 25 minutes.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
⅔ cup butter
⅔ cup brown sugar
2 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
½ cup white sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup milk
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
