['0.25 cup unsalted butter', '0.5 cup milk', '1 pinch salt', '0.5 cup all-purpose flour', '2 large eggs', '0.25 cup white sugar', '0.5 teaspoon ground cinnamon']
Melt butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat. Stir in milk and salt. Reduce the heat to medium and bring to a boil, continuously stirring with a wooden spoon. Quickly add flour all at once and keep stirring until the dough comes together.
Remove from the heat and let cool for 5 to 7 minutes. Mix in eggs with the wooden spoon until incorporated. Spoon dough into a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip. Pipe dough directly into the air fryer basket, making six equal strips.
Air fry churros at 340 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, mix sugar and cinnamon together in a small bowl until well combined. Pour onto a shallow plate.
Remove churros from the air fryer and roll in the cinnamon sugar to coat.
done!
['0.5 cup water', '2.5 tablespoons vegetable oil', '1 tablespoon white sugar', '0.5 tablespoon salt', '0.5 cup all-purpose flour', '1.5 cups grapeseed oil for frying, or as needed', '4 tablespoons heavy cream', '1 (2 ounce) bar dark chocolate (70%)', '2 tablespoons chocolate-hazelnut spread (such as Nutella )', '1 tablespoon unsalted butter', '1 tablespoon white sugar', '0.5 teaspoon ground coffee beans', '8 cardamom pods, seeded and hulls discarded', '1 (2 inch) piece cinnamon stick', '1 star anise pod', '0.5 cup white sugar']
Bring water to a boil in a medium-sized pot. Add vegetable oil, sugar, and salt. Stir to combine. Add flour and turn off heat. Stir continuously and vigorously with a wooden spoon until dough balls up and follows your spoon around the pan, 1 to 2 minutes. Set aside to cool when dough feels firm and supple.
Heat 3/4- to 1 inch of grapeseed oil in a medium-sized pot over medium heat.
While oil heats, combine heavy cream, dark chocolate, chocolate-hazelnut spread, butter, sugar, and ground coffee in a pan set over lowest heat. Stir often to ensure even melting, 3 to 5 minutes.
Grease the inside of a piping bag fitted with a star tip. Insert dough and squeeze it all the way to the bottom of the bag.
Insert the handle of a wooden spoon into the oil heating in the pot; if it bubbles steadily, the oil is ready. Carefully squeeze dough out of the bag directly into the hot oil, cutting it off at 6-inch lengths. You can also pipe lengths of dough onto parchment paper and transfer them to the oil by hand. Do not crowd the pot.
Fry churros, turning every minute, for 2 to 3 minutes total. Transfer fried churros to a dish lined with paper towels.
Place cardamom seeds, cinnamon stick, and star anise in a spice grinder and blend to a fine powder. Transfer to a wide dish and add sugar. Mix well to combine.
Toss warm churros into the cinnamon-cardamom sugar. Serve alongside a dipping cup of the chocolate sauce.
done!
['1 1/4 cups water', '5 tablespoons cold unsalted butter', '2 packed tablespoons brown sugar', '1/2 teaspoon fine salt', '1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour', '1 teaspoon vanilla extract', '2 large eggs', '2 tablespoons melted butter for brushing on before sugaring.', 'For the cinnamon sugar:', '1/3 cup white sugar', '1 tablespoon cinnamon', '1/4 teaspoon salt']
Combine water, butter, brown sugar, and salt in a saucepan over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Add flour all at once and cook, stirring, until a soft, sticky dough ball forms, and a starchy film coats the bottom of the pan, about 5 minutes.
Continue cooking for about 1 minute more, scraping the film off the bottom of the pan as you stir. You won t have a clean bottom surface, but some will be reabsorbed by the dough.
Transfer to a bowl and let cool for 10 minutes.
Add in vanilla extract and eggs, 1 at a time, and mix in using a spatula. The mixture will separate at first, but eventually it will smear together into a sticky dough.
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). Line 2 baking sheets with silpat mats or parchment paper.
Transfer dough into a pastry bag fitted with a star tip (I used a number 356 tip). Pipe out 3 to 4 inch ropes onto the prepared baking sheets, spaced a few inches apart. Use the back of a knife to  cut  through dough at the end of each piping, to get a clean end. Since this makes 28 to 30 bite-sized churros, pipe 14 to 15 onto each baking sheet.
Once piped, spray tops of the churros with vegetable oil spray, and then spray water generously all over the pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until churros are puffed and the edges are browned, 20 to 25 minutes. Turn off the oven, and open the door for about 10 seconds to vent heat. Close the door, leaving it open about 8 to 12 inches, and let churros rest in the oven for 10 minutes.
Remove from the oven, and working in batches of 6 at a time, brush them lightly with melted butter, and then toss to coat in a bag of cinnamon sugar.
done!
['2 quarts vegetable oil for frying', '1 cup water', '0.5 cup margarine', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '0.25 teaspoon salt', '3 eggs', '0.25 cup white sugar', '0.25 teaspoon ground cinnamon']
In a heavy deep skillet or deep-fryer, heat oil to 360 degrees F (180 degrees C). Oil should be about 1 1/2 inches deep.
In a medium saucepan, heat water and margarine to a rolling boil. Combine the flour and salt; stir into the boiling mixture. Reduce heat to low and stir vigorously until the mixture forms a ball, about 1 minute. Remove from heat and beat in the eggs one at a time. Spoon the mixture into a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip.
Carefully squeeze out 4 inch long strips of dough directly into the hot oil. Fry 3 or 4 strips at once, until golden brown, about 2 minutes on each side. Remove from hot oil to drain on paper towels. Stir together the sugar and cinnamon; roll churros in the mixture while still hot.
done!
['1/2 cup water', '1/2 cup 2% milk', '1 tablespoon canola oil', '1/4 teaspoon salt', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '1 large egg, room temperature', '1/4 teaspoon grated lemon zest', 'Additional oil for frying', '1/2 cup sugar', '1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon', 'Chocolate sauce, optional']
In a large saucepan, bring the water, milk, oil and salt to a boil. Add flour all at once and stir until a smooth ball forms. Transfer to a large bowl; let stand for 5 minutes.
Beat on medium-high speed for 1 minute or until the dough softens. Add egg and lemon zest; beat for 1-2 minutes. Set aside to cool.
In a deep cast-iron or heavy skillet, heat 1 in. oil to 375 . Insert a large star tip in a pastry bag; fill with dough. On a baking sheet, pipe dough into 4-in. strips.
Transfer strips to skillet and fry until golden brown on both sides. Drain on paper towels. Combine the sugar and cinnamon; sprinkle over churros. Serve warm with chocoalte sauce if desired.
done!
['1 cup heavy cream', '1 cup light corn syrup', '5 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped', '1 tablespoon hot paprika', '0.25 teaspoon cayenne', '1 stick unsalted butter', '2 tablespoons granulated sugar', '0.5 teaspoon kosher salt', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '3 large eggs', 'Vegetable oil, for frying', "Confectioners' sugar, for dusting"]
Chocolate Sauce: Combine cream and corn syrup in a small saucepan over medium; bring to a simmer, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat and add chocolate, paprika, and cayenne; stir until chocolate is melted. Cover to keep warm and set aside.
Churros: In a medium saucepan, combine 1 cup water, butter, granulated sugar, and salt; bring to a boil over medium-high. Remove from heat and stir in flour. Return to medium-high and cook, stirring constantly, until mixture pulls away from sides and a film forms on bottom of pan, 2 to 3 minutes.
Transfer mixture to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Beat on low speed until slightly cooled, about 1 minute. Increase speed to medium and add eggs, one at a time, beating until each addition of egg is fully incorporated before adding the next one.
Continue to beat mixture until soft peaks form when you touch the batter and pull your finger away. Transfer mixture to a piping bag fitted with a closed star tip (such as Ateco #846).
Pour enough oil into a large, deep, heavy pot (such as a Dutch oven) until it reaches 2 inches up the side, leaving about 2 1/2-inches of headroom. Clip a deep-fry thermometer to pot and heat oil over medium to between 350  and 360 . Working in batches, hold pastry bag a few inches from oil and pipe out a few 4-inch-long ropes of batter, snipping off dough at ends with a pair of kitchen shears.
Fry churros, flipping once, until puffed and deep golden brown all over, about 6 minutes. Transfer to wire racks; let cool slightly then dust with confectioners  sugar. Repeat with remaining batter, adjusting oil as needed to maintain temperature. Serve churros immediately with reserved chocolate sauce on the side.