['3 egg whites', '0.25 cup white sugar', "1.6666667461395 cups confectioners' sugar", '1 cup finely ground almonds']
Line a baking sheet with a silicone baking mat.
Beat egg whites in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment until foamy. Add white sugar and beat until egg whites are glossy, fluffy, and hold soft peaks.
Sift confectioners' sugar and ground almonds in a separate bowl; quickly fold almond mixture into egg whites, about 30 strokes.
Spoon a small amount of batter into a plastic bag with a small corner cut off and pipe a test disk of batter, about 1 1/2 inches in diameter, onto the prepared baking sheet. If the disk of batter holds a peak instead of flattening immediately, gently fold batter a few more times and retest.
When batter is mixed enough to flatten immediately into an even disk, spoon into a pastry bag fitted with a plain round tip. Pipe batter onto the baking sheet in rounds, leaving space between the disks. Let piped cookies stand out at room temperature until they form a hard skin on top, about 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 285 degrees F (140 degrees C).
Bake cookies in preheated oven until set but not browned, about 10 minutes.
Let cookies cool completely before filling, about 30 minutes.
done!
['4 extra large egg whites', "1.6666667461395 cups confectioners' sugar", '1.3333330154419 cups almond flour', '0.125 teaspoon salt', '0.25 cup superfine (castor) sugar', '0.25 cup seedless raspberry jam']
Place egg whites into a metal mixing bowl and refrigerate overnight. The next day, bring egg whites to room temperature.
Preheat the oven to 280 degrees F (138 degrees C). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk confectioners' sugar and almond flour together in a bowl.
Beat egg whites with salt in a metal bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed until foamy, about 1 minute. Increase speed to high and gradually beat in superfine sugar, about 1 tablespoon at a time, until egg whites are glossy and hold stiff peaks, 3 to 5 more minutes.
Gently fold almond flour mixture into whipped egg whites until thoroughly incorporated; spoon meringue into a pastry bag fitted with a 3/8-inch tip. Pipe 1-inch disks of meringue onto the prepared baking sheets, leaving 2 inches of space between macarons. The batter will spread.
Lift the baking sheets a few inches above the work surface and hit them lightly on the work surface several times to remove any air bubbles from the macarons; let stand at room temperature until the shiny surfaces become dull and a thin skin forms, about 25 to 30 minutes.
Place the baking sheets in the preheated oven and bake until macarons surfaces are completely dry, about 19 to 20 minutes. Let macarons cool completely on the baking sheets before peeling parchment paper off.
Spread half of the macaron cookies with any desired filling; top with remaining macarons to make sandwich cookies, and refrigerate at least 2 hours to overnight to let them soften.
done!
['0.667 cup sliced blanched almonds (71 grams)', "1 cup confectioners' sugar (117 grams)", '2 large egg whites, room temperature', '0.25 cup granulated sugar (53 grams)', 'Jam or other filling']
Preheat oven and grind almonds: Preheat oven to 350 F with rack in lower third. Place almonds in a food processor; process until as fine as possible, about 1 minute. Add confectioners' sugar; process until combined, about 1 minute.
Sift the almond mixture: Pass almond mixture through a fine-mesh sieve. Transfer solids in sieve to food processor; grind and sift again, pressing down on clumps. Repeat until less than 2 tablespoons of solids remains in sieve.
Whip egg whites: Whisk egg whites and granulated sugar by hand to combine. Beat on medium speed (4 on a KitchenAid) 2 minutes. Increase speed to medium-high (6) and beat 2 minutes. Then beat on high (8) 2 minutes more.
Customize the meringue: The beaten egg whites will hold stiff, glossy peaks when you lift the whisk out of the bowl. Add flavoring and food coloring, if desired, and beat on highest speed for 30 seconds after adding.
Fold in almond mixture: Add the dry ingredients all at once. Fold in with a spatula from bottom of bowl upward, then press flat side of spatula firmly through middle of mixture. Repeat just until batter flows like lava, 35 to 40 complete strokes.
Prepare to pipe: Rest a pastry bag fitted with a 3/8-inch round tip (Ateco #804) inside a glass. Transfer batter to bag; secure top. Dab some batter remaining in bowl onto corners of 2 heavy baking sheets; line with parchment paper the batter will prevent them from slipping.
Pipe rounds: With piping tip 1/2 inch above sheet, pipe batter into a 3/4-inch round, then swirl tip off to one side. Repeat, spacing rounds 1 inch apart. Tap sheets firmly against counter 2 or 3 times to release air bubbles.
Bake and fill macarons: Bake 1 sheet at a time, rotating halfway through, until risen and just set, 13 minutes. Let cool. Pipe or spread filling on flat sides of half of the cookies; gently top each cookie with filling with another cookie. Wrap the macarons in plastic and refrigerate.